IN THE COURT OF DISTRICT JUDGE, LAHORE







1. MEERAB ABBAS d/o Abbas Ali DOB 28-9-2010. 

2. MUHAMMAD AHMED s/o Abbas Ali DOB 17-9-2012. 

3. MUHAMMAD HASSAN ABBAS s/o Abbas Ali DOB 24-4-15. 

4. MAH ROSH d/o Abbas Ali DOB 16-2-2020. 

Plaintiffs are minor, Pleading through their real mother as next friend; Mst. AMBREEN INAYAT d/o Haji Muhammad Inayat r/o House No.168, LDA Shah Jamal Ichra, Lahore; Presently, residing at House No. 42-A, Rehman Pura, Ichra, Lahore. 

(Appellants/Plaintiffs)

Abbas Ali s/o Muhammad Aslam r/o House No.21, Street No.107, Mohallah Taylian Zaildar Road Ichra, Lahore. 

(Respondent/Defendant)



APPEAL UNDER SECTION 14(1)(b) OF FAMILY COURTS ACT 1964 READ ALONGWITH SECTION 151 CPC FOR ENHANCEMENT OF THE MAINTENANCE ALLOWANCE

Respectfully Sheweth: 

That the above captioned suit was decreed on 15.05.2023. 

That Mst. Ambreen obtain decree of dissolution of marriage on 02.12.2022 from the defendant and they have four children namely applicants/plaintiffs mentioned above out of that wedlock. 

The learned Family Court vide the said impugned decree, established that defendant is the real father of the applicants/plaintiffs; ordered that appellants/plaintiffs are entitled to recover maintenance allowance from the defendant at the rate of Rs. 6000/- each per month with 10% annual increase on basic rate of maintenance from the date of institution of the instant decided suit till their legal entitlement, however past maintenance in their case was declined.

Ground 1 

That the learned judge in the judgement/decree dated 15.05.2023, did not provide a sufficient reason and/or any reason to decline the past maintenance of applicants/plaintiffs that was reasonably prayed from the date of refusal to pay maintenance by the defendant i.e., 29.06.2022, till the date of institution of the instant suit, i.e., 28.02.2023 (hereinafter referred to as ‘period of distress’). 

That it is submitted that Ms. Ambreen Inayat owns a beauty parlour, however, due to rampant inflation, deteriorating economic conditions and non-payment of the maintenance during the period of distress, constrained Mst. Ambreen Inayat’s spending on applicants’/plaintiffs’ basic-necessities of life like education and health maintenance etc. Consequently, she had to borrow money from the locality, friends & family to buy and/or pay for necessities of life. The accumulated debt is so huge that her income is not sufficient to discharge it till this date and it is still compounding. 

That, defendant has the liability to maintain his young children/applicants/plaintiffs. Mst. Ambreen Inayat did not pray for her maintenance allowance from the defendant, whereas, she had a full right to do so, because she was earning a decent amount from her business to fulfil her needs and does not want to come out as unreasonable.

Ground 2:

That the learned judge erred to disregard the oral testimonies of PW1 and PW2 in the matter related to total income of the defendant. It is averred that Mst Ambreen Inayat have no access, permission, or approach to obtain any documentary evidence related to defendant’s income, however, she managed to get corroborative evidence in the shape of oral evidence, which the learned judge did not take in to account while pronouncing the judgement. 

That, moreover, the learned judge did not appraise the fact that Mst. Ambreen Inayat being a woman in the male dominated society and having restrained relationship with the defendant, would not be able to compel defendant to produce the real documentary evidence of his income for her inspection. It is only possible if the court render the defendant or his brother for production of evidence related to their income. 

That the learned Judge was aware of the fact in the light of oral evidences by PW1 & PW2 that defendant is the co-owner of a Mobile Shop at Hall Road and has similar businesses abroad; still the learned judge gave a lenient order related to maintenance allowance in the favour of the defendant, to the detriment of the applicants/plaintiffs, even after defendant was contumacious in appearing before the court, which is evident from the above-mentioned Ex-parte decree.

 That it is pertinent to mention that the impugned judgement was given on 15.05.2023 and defendant has until 15.06.2023 to set aside the impugned judgement. Whereas, he has not applied till date to set aside the impugned judgement, which proves the fact that defendant is willing use the given available time in law to torture Ambreen Inayat by protracting the case and avoid payment of the maintenance allowance, which in turn is an abuse of process and/or misuse of law. 

That the learned judge could have taken a reasonable income of a person owning a Mobile Shop on Hall Road and having similar businesses abroad, which comes to 500,000/- per month, out of which, defendant can easily provide a sum of Rs. 50,000/- for better living of each applicant/plaintiff. 

Ground 3: 

That the learned Judge while assessing maintenance allowance did not take account of minors promoted to higher classes and were admitted in better schools & tuition fees etc., while pronouncing the said judgement. 

Ground 4:     

That the learned judge did not take in to account the rampant inflation in the consumer market, deteriorating economic condition and instable political environment of the country. The judge only awarded a 10% increment every year on the basic rate of Rs.6000/- for each applicant/plaintiff, however, it is submitted that as the increment is on basic rate than it could have been a 20% increment instead, given the economic climate and sustenance of four growing children in this unstable political climate. 

 

PRAYER 



In the above circumstances, it is therefore respectfully prayed that the maintenance allowance may please be enhanced in accordance with the prevailing economic circumstances and other maintenance requirements of the minors/applicants/plaintiffs, also taking in to account the defendant’s income and his capacity to pay. 

It is further prayed that the learned Appellate Court may also subject defendant to provide a reasonable past maintenance allowance at the basic rate of Rs. 6000/- in the interest of justice and wellbeing of his children’s/applicants’/plaintiffs’. The total whereof comes to Rs. 1,92,000/-

It is also prayed that if the yearly increment is on basic rate of maintenance than it should have been a 20% increment instead, given the economic climate and sustenance of the applicants/plaintiffs in this unstable political climate.

Any other relief which this Honourable court deems fit may also be awarded to the applicant. 



    			Applicants

Through their Counsels

CH. MUHAMMAD ASHRAF KASANA

Advocate High Court 

9-Farid Kot Road, Lahore 

-AND-

BARRISTER MUHAMMAD ZAMAN MALIK

Advocate High Court

4 Bank Square, 

The Mall Lahore 

IN THE COURT OF DISTRICT JUDGE LAHORE

1. MEERAB ABBAS d/o Abbas Ali DOB 28-9-2010. 

2. MUHAMMAD AHMED s/o Abbas Ali DOB 17-9-2012. 

3. MUHAMMAD HASSAN ABBAS s/o Abbas Ali DOB 24-4-15. 

4. MAH ROSH d/o Abbas Ali DOB 16-2-2020. 

Plaintiffs are minor, pleading through their real mother as next friend; Mst. AMBREEN INAYAT d/o Haji Muhammad Inayat r/o House No.168, LDA Shah Jamal Ichra, Lahore; Presently, residing at House No. 42-A, Rehman Pura, Ichra, Lahore. 

(Appellants/Plaintiffs)

Abbas Ali s/o Muhammad Aslam r/o House No.21, Street No.107, Mohallah Taylian Zaildar Road Ichra, Lahore. 

(Respondent/Defendant)

APPEAL UNDER SECTION 14(1)(b) OF FAMILY COURTS ACT 1964 READ ALONGWITH SECTION 151 CPC FOR ENHANCEMENT OF THE MAINTENANCE ALLOWANCE

AFFIDAVIT OF: Mst. AMBREEN INAYAT d/o Haji Muhammad Inayat r/o House No.168, LDA Shah Jamal Ichra, Lahore.

I, the above-named deponent does hereby solemnly declare and affirm as under: - 

That the appended appeal may be read as an integral part of the affidavit. 

That nothing has been concealed. 

DEPONENT

VERIFICATION:

	Verified on oath at Lahore on this 15th day of June, 2023 that the contents of the above affidavit are correct and true to the best of my knowledge and nothing has been concealed therefrom. 

DEPONENT