--- START OF FILE: 4801 Advocacy submissions.docx ---

IN THE CENTRAL LONDON COUNTY COURT

Claim No:CL112567 





BETWEEN 



MS USHA BAINS

Claimant

And



GROW YOUR GARDEN LIMITED

Defendant





SKELETON ARGUMENT FOR THE CLAIMANT



INTRODUCTION 

The Claimant (‘C’) seeks an interim payment in the sum of £10,000 or such other sum as the court may think fit under CPR, r. 25.6. 		 

CORE DOCUMENTS

C will refer to the following documents

Particulars of Claim

3 May 2022

[Pg 2-3]

Schedule of Past loss and expense

3 May 2022

[Pg 4]

Notice of Application 

11 July 2022

[Pg 7-8]

Defence

17 May 2022

[Pg 5-6]

Evidence on behalf of the C

Witness statement of Ms. Usha Bains (‘UB’)

27 July 2022

[Pg 9-10]

Exhibit UB1: Medical report of Mr P. A. Singh F.R.C.S. 

4 January 2022

[Pg 11-13]

Exhibit UB2: Sunrise and sunset UK

23 October 2019

[Pg 14]

Exhibit UB3: letter of acknowledgement from General Insurance Company plc

4 October 2020

[Pg 15]

Evidence on behalf of the defendant (‘D’)





Witness statement of Mr. Alan Simpson (‘AS’)

18 July 2022

[Pg 16]

AS1: Certificate of recoverable benefits

1 July 2022

[Pg 17]



BACKGROUND

The claim arises out of personal Injury accident sustained on 23 October 2019 at approximately 6.30pm at work.

D is C’s employer company, approximately at 5pm, the branch manager employed by the D at its Retail Park store in Harrow, London, Mr Alan Simpson requested C to tidy up the plant pots and plants section in the outdoor garden centre at the store. When C went in to the area, there was some daylight, as the day light went down, she had some light from the nearby street lighting. [Pg.10:7] 

In October, it goes dark around 6.30pm as evidenced in the exhibit UB2. About that time, she decided to switch on the outdoor lights in the garden centre. [Pg.10:8]

The switch was located on the external walls of buildings at the two entrances to the outdoor garden centre. The flagstones were normally stacked in a corner of the outdoor garden centre, away from pedestrian pathways. [Pg.5:3]

The C claims that flagstone had been removed from a nearby shelf and placed in the middle of the pathway by a customer or member of staff. Therefore, the accident was caused by the D’s negligence as set out in POC. [Pg.2:2]

The D denies liability and alleges negligence on the part of C as set out in the defence. [Pg.5:4]

As a result of the accident C sustained personal injury (Colles fracture to her left dominant wrist, and associated soft tissue injury). [Pg.11:2]

C was unable to return to work for 10 weeks following the accident. [Pg.10:10]

The X ray shows satisfactory signs of healing, however, given the pain being experienced, it may be that some nerves have not yet healed. A minor surgical procedure is likely to resolve the pain. [Pg.12:10/2]



PRELIMINARY/PROCEDURAL POINTS

The substantial claim is related to personal injuries sustained at work. 

C has compiled with the requirement of giving 14 days’ notice to the D, as required by CPR r. 25.6(3)(a). 

An application for an interim remedy must be supported by evidence unless the court orders otherwise (r 25.3(2)).

C has satisfied the requirement of both CPR r. 25.6(3)(b) and 25BPD.2 in submitting the requisite evidence in support of this application.



THE LEGAL TEST 

The court has a discretion to make an interim payment if it is satisfied that:

C will obtain judgement at trial for a substantial amount of money: CPR, r. 25.7(1)(c). 

The sum sought by way of interim payment is not more than a reasonable proportion of the likely amount of the final judgement: CPR r. 25.7(4). 

The court must take in to account contributory negligence and any relevant set-off or counterclaim: CPR, r 25.7(5). 

C contends that the above conditions are satisfied on the balance of probabilities for the reasons set below.



SUBMISSIONS

WILL C OBTAIN JUDGEMENT AT TRIAL FOR A SUBSTANTIAL AMOUNT OF MONEY?

This depends on (a) liability and (b) the likely quantum of the claim. 

Liability

It is submitted that C will succeed, if the claim goes to trial for the following reasons: 

C complied with managers direction.

D failed to inspect the outdoor garden centre to ensure safety before assigning the job.

D did not assess the nature of job before assigning it to the C. 

If C took longer than usual to finish the job, the D’s manager did not check on her on time.

D did not take any action to remove the flagstones in the pathway in time, which became a hazard. 

D failed to ensure proper lighting in the outdoor garden centre. 

D did not regard for C’s safety and exposed her to unnecessary risk of injury. 



Contributory negligence:

C is not likely to have caused or contributed to the accident for the reasons set out above. If the court were to make a finding of contributory negligence, such a finding would be negligible. 



Quantum

It is submitted that C is likely to obtain a substantial award of damages at trial. Her damages fall in to three categories:

General damages for pain, suffering and loss of amenity. 

Special damages to the date of the hearing, 

Future loss and expense. 

General damages for pain, suffering and loss of amenity 

C suffered Colles fracture of the left dominant wrist and there was associated soft tissue injury. The wounds were clean and the fracture was reduced under general anaesthetic and held in place with the plate and screws. Full details of the treatment and prognosis are set out in the medical report of Mr Singh dated 4/January/2022: exhibit UB1. [Pg.11:1]

Based on the medical evidence available to date, C submits that an appropriate award of damages for pain, suffering and loss of amenity is likely to be in region of £17,469.515. C relies on following authorities: 

 Judicial College Guidelines  16th Edition, Wrist Injuries, Section (H) (c): £12,590 to £24,500

C submits that based on the present medical evidence, the claim falls in the middle of this bracket. 

Grant v Highland Council, 2004 WL 3119728 

The court awarded £15,188.83 for injuring her left wrist with a reduction of 25% for contributory negligence (adjusted with Simmons v Castle uplift). 

Kennedy v Lees of Scotland Ltd, 1996 WL 1749426

The court awarded £19,750.20 for suffering a Colles fracture of the right, which was the dominant wrist, on full liability. (Adjusted for Heil v Rankin uplift and Simmons v Castle uplift) 



C contends that the case of Kennedy is an appropriate baseline comparator for the following reasons:

The type of injury is similar. 

The hospital treatment for both was by metal plate and screws. 

Both suffers pain after fracture was healed.

Both have suffered pain and require surgery after primary fracture healed. 

However, it is contended that C’s case lies above Grant and below Kennedy, falling between two cases cited above, as in the case of C: 

She came to work with within 10 weeks. 

She can perform her work until future operation. 



Special damages 

The current figure for special damages is £4,478.90 (excluding interest): Schedule of past loss and expense. 



Future Loss and Expense

The current figure for future loss and expense is £8,525.90

  

NO MORE THAN A REAOSNABLE PROPORTION OF THE LIKELY TOTAL AWARD

The total value of the claim is likely to be in the region of £30,474.315 (17,469.515 (general damages) + 4478.90 (special damages) + 8525.90 (future loss)). C submits that £10,000 is not more than a reasonable proportion of the likely total award of damages.

In addition, C submits that she requires further surgery to her wrist and this will delay the time when the claim can be tried until later this year. 

CONCLUSION

Therefore, C seeks an order for an interim payment in the sum of £10,000 or such other sum as the court shall think fit.

--- END OF FILE: 4801 Advocacy submissions.docx ---


--- START OF FILE: 4801 Advocacy XX.docx ---

Case theory:

Ms Johannson took Mr Tindle’s refusal of offer to settle the matter as an insult and he made up sentences in her statement to show that Mr Tindle had an aggressive demeaner. In revenge for the insult, Ms Johannson pushed Mr Tindle out of the door and he tripped on to pavement, subsequently, threw expensive lamp on him to pin charge of criminal damage on him. 

Inconsistency:

[14- Mr T]



The Lobby or atrium is a small rectangular room about 5m x 3m. The entrance door is in the middle of one of the long sides of the rectangle. The chandelier lamp was standing against the middle of the other long wall and has a velvet curtain behind it. As you stand in the entrance door looking in to the atrium, the top of the stairs takes up most of the wall on your right and the wall to your left is blank. There is a small reception desk immediately inside the door on the right that is just big enough to hold a guest list.

 

[13, Mr T]



Mr T did not make any comments about foreigners. Johannson then said they did not want my type in the bar and called me a “cheap chav.” Mr T said he would ask the credit card company to stop the payment and he would contact trading standards and make a comment on every internet review site, he could find. He could see that Mr J was getting angry but he did not really care. At this point, I went to leave and Johannson told me to “fuck off.” I ignored it and started to walk up the stairs. At no point Mr T said “you can shove your champagne where the sun does not shine.” Or, “just fuck off, you patronizing idiot.” Mr T may well have said something about it being a trashy place and daylight robbery as that is certainly, what he thinks. 

Mr J ran up the stairs behind Mr T. Mr T thought Mr J was pathetic and when Mr J got to the top of the stairs Mr T said so. Mr T was not waiting. Mr J got to the lobby at about the same time as Mr T and reached past him to open the door and Mr T immediately started to leave. Mr T did not stroke any curtains or divert from his route to the door at any time. Mr T did not walk past the door at any time.

Mr J shoved open the door and stepped back as if to let me go. As Mr T went to walk out, Mr J shouted, “just get out.” Mr J then shoved me hard out of the door. There is a step up to the door from the pavement. Mr T lost his footing and he fell on to the pavement outside. 

Mr T turned and saw the big lamp come crashing down on top of him. Mr T did not grab hold of the lamp or touch it, at any point until it fell on me. It was behind him as he tried to leave. 

Either Mr J pushed the lamp on top of him or got caught up in it when pushing Mr T causing it to fall. 



Police Interview [11]



Mr T said that he would get on to trading standards and let other people know what sort of business they were running. 

Mr T just wanted to get out and for the whole thing to be over.

When T was leaving, Mr J followed him and shoved him out of the door. 

Mr J shoved Mr T so hard that he fell over as he was going out through the door. Mr T is not sure whether Mr J threw the lamp on top of him or if it knocked over as Mr J pushed him. Police saw Mr T was covered in glass and cuts. How could Mr T has pushed it and be under it at the same time?

Mr J was pissed off that he could not just buy him off and worried about what Mr T would write on the internet. Mr J did not need to follow me up the stairs did they?



[15, EIC]



Mr J waited for Mr T to get about halfway up the stairs and then Mr J began to follow him. 

Mr J intended to see Mr T out and lock the door behind him. 

Mr J did not want others to think the venue was open for business and Mr J did not want Mr T to come back in. 

It is sometimes tricky to get the door open so Mr J was not that surprised to still see Mr T standing there as I came to the top of the stairs.

When Mr J got to the top of the stairs, Mr T was standing in front of me. The exit door was to my left and the lamp was in between them. The entrance to the stairwell was behind Mr T and the reception desk was to my right. 

Mr J found it strange that Mr T was on the other side of the lamp from me stroking the velvet curtains. Where he was standing was not on a route to the exit but past the door. Mr T said, “it would be sad, if anything happened to your lovely things.” 

Mr J leaned towards the exit door and flicked the latch and turned the bolt. You need two hands to do this as it is a heavy door. Mr J opened the door and then stepped back to make way for Mr T to leave.

Mr T looked like he was moving towards the door but shoved the lamp violently towards the door as he did so. Mr J saw it falling and he took a step back towards the stairs. As he did so, Mr T appeared to stumble over it and he tripped out on to the street, landing with a thud on his side and then rolling over on to his back. 

Mr T was surrounded by glass and his leg was caught on the lamp stand. 



Statement by Mr J on 20th Jan



After rejection of the offer. 

Mr T stood up and still holding the magnum, said, “you can shove your champagne where the sun don’t shine.” He said that he would not be returning to this “thrashy bar.” He said he would be writing as many bad online reviews as he could. Mr J told him that he is sorry he felt that way. Mr T then shouted “just fuck off you patronising idiot” and walked towards the stairs. Mr J was relieved, he was leaving. Mr J followed him so that he could lock the entrance door after he had left. 

As Mr J reached the top of the stairs Mr T was stroking the velvet curtain behind the crystal chandelier floor lamp that is the design centrepiece of bar entrance. He said, “it would be sad, if anything happened to your lovely things.” 

Mr T was standing between me and the lamp. Mr J reached past him to open the front door, so he could leave and then stepped back to let him past. As he moved towards the door, he grabbed hold of the chandelier floor lamp and shoved it into the doorway. As the lamp fell Mr T seemed to get tangled in it, so that he and the lamp fell to the ground in the door way. 

Mr T was trying to get up but was struggling because of the broken glass on the floor around him. Mr J shouted downstairs for Mr Mournier. Mr J then pressed the police community support panic button. 

Mr T was hysterical.

XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX



Themes:



Venue questions.



Ms Johannson, you are a General manager of the Vine Wine Bar and Lounge in Moorgate, isn’t?



The entrance to the venue is down a spiral staircase from a street level atrium, isn’t?





Ms Johannson, you got quite a premium bar, haven’t you?



And you have got an extensive lavish menu as well?





Ms Johannson its obvious you get well-paying customers, don’t you?



And they must have a lot of expectations, when they come to your bar, don’t they?





Conclusion:

It can be said that this bar attracts high class gentry, is that correct?

 

Over charged questions

Ms Johannson, you are now aware that Mr Tindle was over charged for one bottle of champagne, aren’t you?

Mr Tindle voicemail was received by you on the 17th of January, is that right?



He asked for £90 refund, is that right?





On the night of 15th January, it was a quite busy night at the bar, wasn’t?



There was a queue of customers for chip and pin payment that night, is that correct?





Mr Tindle was reluctant when he was asked to start the bar tab, is that right?



Cashier did not confirm the bill amount before asking Mr Tindle to enter his pin for the payment, didn’t he?





According to your witness statement, the till receipts are checked against the bar tabs and the relevant champagne inventory, is that correct?



You were there for work as well, weren’t you?





It was not you who carried out the staff search that night, is it so?



Conclusion:

It could be said that you did not complete your investigation. Is it correct? 



Mr Tindle did not show a threatening behaviour



On 19th January, you arrived earlier than usual as you must prepare for the busy weekend ahead, didn’t you? 



Your chef, Mr Mournier, came late without due notice, is that correct?



It made you upset because he wasted couple of preparation hours, didn’t it?





You further contact Mr Tindle by asking him to discuss the matter with you, didn’t you?





Mr Tindle came to your bar on his lunch break(time), is that correct?



Mr Tindle was escorted by Mr Mournier in to the bar area, is that correct?



Mr Tindle showed you a till receipt, didn’t he?



The receipt did not clearly itemise anything, didn’t it?



To which you stated issuing a refund would be impossible, isn’t it?



You went on to tell Mr Tindle that he had not been over charged, didn’t you?





You did not believe that Mr Tindle was over charged, is that correct?



You made an offer, which Mr Tindle rejected, is that correct?



You being generous felt insulted, when he rejected your offer, isn’t?





Mr Tindle picked up the empty magnum of champagne in between the conversation, didn’t he?



You yanked it out of his hand, didn’t you?



Conclusion: 

Mr Tindle was having a normal conversation and you added expletive sentences to justify that Mr Tindle had an aggressive demeanour, didn’t you? 



Mr T wanted to leave quietly



Mr Tindle after rejecting your offer, threatened to complaint about the business to trading standards agency and leave bad reviews online, didn’t he?



After that he voluntarily went upstairs to leave, didn’t he?





Mr Tindle did not create any trouble on the way to the door, is that correct?



You followed Mr Tindle voluntarily, didn’t you?





Mr Tindle is a capable adult, who can handle tricky locks, don’t you think so?



You obviously followed him to make sure he understands that he is not welcome back, didn’t he?



When you went upstairs, he passed an unpleasant remark, didn’t he?



Those remarks made you angry, given you felt insulted after rejection, is that correct?





When you reached upstairs, Mr Tindle was standing by the door to leave, opposite to the velvet curtain and the lamp, isn’t? - Inconsistent statement procedure applies



But you tried to be civilized and you open the door for him to leave, didn’t you?





Mr Tindle did not create any trouble before you opened the door, is that correct?



Conclusion: 



When you reached upstairs, Mr Tindle was standing by the door to leave quietly, is that correct?

  

Mr Tindle did not push the lamp and break it



When you opened the door, Mr Tindle was about to leave, didn’t he?



Mr Tindle tripped on the step and landed on the street outside, didn’t he?





The chandelier fell on Mr Tindle, is that correct?



Had he shoved the chandelier, it wouldn’t have fallen on him and he wouldn’t have got injured, is that right?



Mr Tindle was covered in broken glass, wasn’t he?





Mr Tindle struggled to get up due to broken glass from the chandelier, wasn’t he?



In fact, the positioning of Mr Tindle reflects that he was next to the door, which makes it obvious that the lamp was behind you and not him, is that right?



On the same time, the curtain was behind the chandelier and it wasn’t possible for him to stroke it, it is correct?



It is obvious that you pushed him so hard that fell on the ground and then pushed the lamp on him, didn’t you?



Ms Johannson you also pushed the panic button, which was right next to the door, is that correct?



You pressed it because you panicked after pushing him purposely, didn’t you?



You did not even help him, when was on the ground covered with broken glass, is that correct?



You called your chef to help him, didn’t you?



If Mr Tindle wanted to create a trouble, he could have broken the magnum of the champagne, isn’t?



It could be said that Mr Tindle had no intention or was reckless in breaking of the chandelier, isn’t?



Conclusion:

Therefore, it is obvious that you are fabricating the allegations upon Mr Tindle to save yourself, don’t you?

I have no further questions. 



XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX

Inconsistency procedure:

If a witness upon cross examination as to a former statement made by him relative to the subject matter of the indictment or proceeding; and 

Inconsistent with his present testimony;

Does not distinctly admit that he has made such statement;

Proof maybe given that he did in fact make it: before such proof can be given, the circumstances of the supposed statement, sufficient to designate the particular occasion, must be mentioned to the witness;

He must be asked, whether or not he has made such statement.

 

(THE WITNESS MUST BE GIVEN THE OPPORTUNITY TO ADMIT THE INCONSISTENCY IN ORAL TESTIMONY)



You have previously said in your witness statement that as you reached the top of the stairs, Mr Tindle was stroking the velvet curtain behind the crystal chandelier floor lamp, and he said “it would be sad if anything happened to your lovely things” Mr Tindle was standing between me and the lamp, hadn’t you?

Two second break and listen...



Do you remember making a statement to the police about this incident the day after it happened?

Two second break and listen...



In that statement you said that Mr Tindle was stroking the velvet curtain behind the crystal chandelier floor lamp and he was standing between me and the lamp. You reached past him to open the front door so he could leave and then stepped back?

Two second break and listen...



Usher could Ms Johannson be handed copy of her witness statement, Thank you. 

Is that your witness statement?

Two second break and listen...



Could you look at the page 5 of the bundle, please read, the fourth paragraph of the statement?

You see a line that begins with the word ‘As’.

Are you with me?

Please read until end of the third sentence which ends with ‘lamp’ and read it silently to yourself and tell me when you are done.

I am done.

You told the police officer that when you reached at the top of the stairs Mr T was stroking the velvet curtain and he was standing between you and the lamp?

No I did not say that.

Please read the sentences aloud to the court.



You have changed your story to take revenge on Mr Tindle for not accepting your generous offer by pushing him and throwing the lamp on him, haven’t you?

No

.........................................................................END.........................................................................

 The formalities of: 

memory refreshing, (Trouble with memory)

if he states in his oral evidence that the document records his recollection of the matter at that earlier time, and 

his recollection of the matter is likely to have been significantly better at that time than it is at the time of his oral evidence.



What type of – I am not sure

Did you make a statement to the police about this incident? Yes

Did you make that statement on the 29th dec? Yes

When you made the statement, did it contain your recollection of the matter at that time? Yes

When you made the statement, do you think that your recollection may have been significantly better than it is today?

Madame, could the witness be allowed to refresh her memory? Thankyou

Usher, could you hand Mr Brown his witness statement?

 Mr Brown, is that your statement?

Could you look at the second page, please?

Now, if you look at the third paragraph up from the bottom that begins

Do you see that?

Please look at the second line 

You should see a sentence start from

Could you read that silently to yourself, please?

Have you finished?

Now Mr Brown, can you tell us how many people came with Mr Tom?

--- END OF FILE: 4801 Advocacy XX.docx ---


--- START OF FILE: 4801 Legal Opinion Fraud and Economic Crimes.docx ---

RE: MS CYNTHIA YEOH, MR CHARLES NEWSTEAD



OPINION



INTRODUCTION:

I am asked to advise on five topics arising from an investigation related to Ms Cynthia Yeoh’s submission of Mr Simon’s Diaz essay as her own work: a) Appropriate charge against Ms Cynthia Yeoh under the Fraud Act 2006; b) What, if any further evidence may be required to establish such charge; c) Whether S 9 Fraud Act 2006 charge is appropriate against Mr Charles Newstead; d) What, if any further evidence may be required to establish such charge; e) Whether restraining order pursuant to the provisions of  POCA 2002 should be obtained against Mr Charles Newstead. There is an investigation going on related to Mr Charles Newstead’s business and assets but proceeding against both potential offenders has not commenced in the Crown Court. 

SUMMARY OF FACTS: 

On 11 February 2022, Mr Simon Diaz met his university friend Mr Charles Newstead in Barstucks Coffee at Clamberwell. Where they discussed the particulars of the job related to writing an assessment for Mr Newstead’s company EZessayz in return for £200 commission. Instead of submitting his original work, Mr Diaz submitted his previous coursework due to work pressure and subsequently it was sold to Ms Yeoh. 

EZessayz, the company was formed in August 2020. It can be deduced from the case papers that Mr Newstead is the sole proprietor of the company. The company write a bespoke (unique) essay for the paying student to avoid detection by a plagiarism software. 

On 18 March 2022, Mr Yeoh signed the student declaration (that it is her own work) and submitted an assessment on Contract Law entitled, “What is the ‘battle of forms’ and how it is resolved under the law of England and Wales?”. Which subsequently determined to have 80% similarity to Mr Diaz’s essay. The essay was the one, which Mr Diaz submitted to Ashdown University in 2020 and forwarded to Mr Newstead in exchange for the commission. 

The university takes plagiarism very seriously and it attracts serious consequences.

On 17 May 2022, a disciplinary hearing was convened against Ms Yeoh, but she did not attend the meeting. Hence, it was determined in her absence that she breached her ‘Student Agreement,’ which was signed in September 2020. On 26 May 2022, Mr Diaz was arrested on suspicion of fraud, but it was agreed that no charges will be brought against him, if he cooperates with the prosecution. 

In April 2022, Professor of Law Mr Thomas Grave at Englefield University and Chair of the Academic Discipline Board was asked to chair a disciplinary panel related to Ms Yeoh’s case. On 27 June 2022, the case was adjourned until determination of appropriate sanction against Ms Yeoh. 



SUMMARY OF ADVICE: 

In my opinion, a charge of S 2 Fraud Act 2006 (FA 2006) is appropriate against Ms Yeoh in the light of given evidence and further evidence will be beneficial to understand her defence. The charge of S 9 FA 2006 is appropriate against Mr Newstead in the light of given evidence and further evidence will be beneficial to understand his defence. Moreover, a restraint order against Mr Newstead is likely to be granted to stop him from any further use of the money from the business account and it must be made on the urgency basis. The details related to appropriate charge and restraint order against the parties in the case are given in the body of opinion. 

THE BODY OF OPINION: 

POSSIBLE FRAUD CHARGES related to Fraud Act 2006

S 2- Fraud by false representation

Where a person dishonestly, makes false representation and intend to make a gain for himself or another. A representation is false if it is untrue or misleading and the person making it knows that it is or might be, untrue or misleading. The representation can be expressed or implied and representation is regarded as made, if it (or anything implying it) is submitted in any form to any system or device design to receive, convey or respond to communications (with or without human intervention). 

S 3- Fraud by failing to disclose information

Where a person dishonestly fails to disclose to another person, information which he is under a legal duty to disclose and intends to make a gain for himself or another. 

S 4- Fraud by abuse of position

A person is in breach, if he occupies a position in which he is expected to safeguard or not to act against, the financial interest of another person. He dishonestly abuses that position and intended to make a gain for himself or another. A person may be regarded as having abused his position even though his conduct consisted of an omission rather than an act.

S 5- Gain 

It extends only to gain or loss in money or other property, whether temporary or permanent. Property means any property, whether real or personal (including things in action or intangible property). It includes a gain by keeping what one has, as well as a gain by getting what one does not have. 

S 6- Possession etc. of articles for use in fraud

A person is guilty if he has in possession or under his control any article for use during or in connection with any fraud. 

S 7- Making or supplying articles for use in frauds

A person is guilty, if he makes, adapts, supplies, or offers to supply any article, knowing that it is designed or adapted for use during or in connection with fraud or intending it to be used to commit or assist in the commission of fraud. 

S 9- Participating in fraudulent business carried on by sole trader etc.

If he is knowingly a party to the carrying on of a business, which is carried on by a person, who is outside the reach of S 993 of the Companies Act 2006- offence of fraudulent trading and intend to defraud creditors of any person or for any other fraudulent purpose. 



Ms Cynthia Yeoh 

APPROPRIATE CHARGES(S) 

Considering present evidence, in my opinion, Ms Yeoh’s submission of the essay will be found in contravention of various assessment regulations by the Academic Discipline Board (ADB), mainly: a) 6.3(i)- it was evident through ‘Acategrity’ report that she had copied or paraphrased the work of another without attribution; b) 6.3(iv)- The disciplinary panel found that she must have received assistance from another person following an investigation through a search engine. 

However, the appropriate charge will only be S 2, which is fraud by false representation and the reason will be discussed in the conclusion of this heading. 

The actus reus of the S 2 offence is false representation and the mens rea is dishonesty, intended to make gain for herself, and knowingly or might be untrue or misleading. 

The false representation can be made in any form like feeding information into the system. Therefore, submitting a plagiarised work, knowing that it is not the author’s original work, through Acategrity (anti-plagiarism software) is false representation. 

Moving to the mens rea of the offence. In order to establish dishonesty element, the court will look at Ivey v Genting Casinos (UK) [2017]. Which provides two limbs test: first, what was the defendant’s actual state of knowledge or belief as to the facts; second, was his conduct dishonest by the standards of ordinary decent people? The application of test most likely to reveal that the first limb is satisfied because Ms Yeoh had the state of knowledge that she was not the original author of the submitted essay and she acquired assistance through EZessayz’s website; the second limb is also likely to be satisfied because her submission of someone else’s work is a dishonest conduct by the standard of a reasonable person.

The next element is intended to make gain for herself. The reason for submitting the assessment is to gain enough credits to pass the degree. The gain can also be defined as having what one does not have, therefore through analogy gaining enough credits in long run will contribute towards the student’s main aim. Hence, it is highly likely that courts will establish that she had intended to make gain for herself. 

Further element is knowingly or might be untrue or misleading, most likely to be satisfied because Ms Yeoh had the knowledge that she is submitting someone else’s work rather than her own.

Hence, the S 2 FA 2006 is the most appropriate charge to be laid against Ms Yeoh because looking at S 3, S 4, S 6, S 7, and S 9 to gather, shows that actus reus of the sections do not match the facts of Ms Yeoh’s case. 

SUPPORTING EVIDENCE

In order to support the charge, at present, following are the supporting evidence, which are likely to be satisfactory: 

witness statement from Mr Diaz: it is the proof that Mr Diaz sold the essay in question to Mr Newstead in return for £200. 

Exhibit SD/1: it proves company’s existence online and the process through which a customer (student) can obtain genuine written essay. 

Exhibit SD/2: it is evidence of EZEssayz’s true intention behind providing bespoke essay to assist student to achieve effortless grade in a particular subject. 

Statement from Mr Fleur Attivar: it explains the process of Acategrity software and how plagiarism is proved. 

Statement from Thomas Grave: it shows a disciplinary action had been started against Ms Yeoh, which in effect shows that an act of submitting the essay in question constitutes illegality because it is in contravention of assessment regulations; her absence on the day of meeting with disciplinary committee is likely to be construed as an adverse inference against her. 

Exhibit TG/1, and Exhibit TG/2: they provide information on assessment regulations and student declaration. 



FURTHER EVIDENCE 

However, in my opinion, the further evidence, that, will be beneficial to solidify the S 2 charge against Ms Yeoh, is a statement from Mr Newstead and Ms Yeoh and a full copy of assessment regulations. The statements will provide their side of the story to assess whether there are any mitigating or extenuating factors and full copy of assessment will help identify any process or provision, which may assist Ms Yeoh in her case. 



PUBLIC INTEREST 

In my opinion, it is in public interest to pursue this case against Ms Yeoh because it is unfair to students, who create original work through dedication and time. If Ms Yeoh is ostensibly allowed to submit someone else’s work, then she will not acquire the purpose of this course, and it will demotivate other students. It will damage the country’s economies of scale related to skilled workforce in long run. 

CONCLUSION ON CHARGES

In conclusion, S 2 of the FA 2006 is an appropriate charge and instructing solicitors have sufficient evidence to pursue this case. Furthermore, it is also in public interest to charge Ms Yeoh to deter other student to attempt such an offence. 



Mr Charles Newstead

APPROPRIATE CHARGES(S) 

I will opine later in the conclusion on, whether S 9 FA 2006 is an appropriate charge against Mr Newstead. I will start by first establishing the charge. 

The actus reus of the S9 is carrying on a business for fraudulent purpose. Which applies only to sole traders. By examining exhibits SD/1 and SD/2, it is evident that Mr Newstead’s company EZEssayz was writing genuine bespoke essay for a paying student (customer). It is evident from exhibit SD/2 that the company stance is that the bespoke essay is for guidance and customer must not submit the original work. However, the latter document also shows that the company had emphasized on the factor of undetectability through anti-plagiarism software, where it can be argued that the company is in effect assisting customers with writing a genuine essay and providing a leeway to submit their work in return for a payment that was made by the student, which is an offence according to assessment regulation 6.3(iv) discussed above. Therefore, it is highly likely that court will find EZEssayz was operated by Mr Newstead for fraudulent purposes.

In order to establish the ownership of the company, it is important to acquire confirmation from company House website. 

However, it is evident from Wessex Police Financial Investigation Unit (WPFIU) report that Mr Newstead is the beneficial owner of EZEssayz because it is in his name and control. 

It is also evident from Mr Diaz’s statement that Mr Newstead is the sole proprietor of EZEssayz because he met Mr Diaz for sole purpose to recruit him as a writer on commission for his company and he had reiterated enough about company process to show that he runs the business and recruit writers to write genuine essays for paying customers (students) and has no intention to provide the material as a guidance, albeit to fraudulently assist students to submit undetectable (on anti-plagiarism software) essays for a grade.  

The mens rea element of the S 9 is knowingly. Again, it is evident from Mr Diaz’s statement that Mr Newstead had the required knowledge of the offence, and he committed the fraud to gain material wealth. Therefore, it is highly likely that courts will find the knowing element satisfied. 

SUPPORTING EVIDENCE

In my opinion following are the evidence that will support the charge, against Mr Newstead: 

Witness statement from Mr Diaz: it confirms that Mr Newstead is the sole proprietor of the EZEssayz. It also laid out the business activities and purpose of its existence. 

Exhibit SD/1: it is evidence of company’s existence and process related to obtaining bespoke essays. An inference can be drawn from the statement, ‘All that’s left to worry about? What to do with your free time’ that company is encouraging student to acquire genuine essay, which can be submit to the institute without detection through anti-plagiarism software, effortlessly to gain a grade. 

Exhibit SD/2: it provides an assurance to students that the bespoke essays cannot be detected through anti-plagiarism software, and it misleads the concern authority that this material is for guidance only. Therefore, it will contribute towards establishing the company’s fraudulent purpose.

WPFIU report: it shows that the beneficial ownership of EZEssayz was held by Mr Newstead. 



FURTHER EVIDENCE

In my opinion, further evidence that will be helpful are:

Statement from Mr Newstead: it will show his intention behind establishing EZEssayz and what he has gained from it. 

Company registration confirmation: as I earlier mentioned it can be obtained from Company House website, it will confirm the identity of the owner. It will also confirm the status of the company trading as sole proprietorship because partnerships are dealt under S 993 of the Companies Act 2006. 



PUBLIC INTEREST

In my opinion, it is in public interest to curb proliferation of essay writing services because it will impact the quality of students that will graduate. If a student can submit someone else’s work without learning than objective or purpose of the degree vanishes, and it is bad for the business and country’s economy. 

CONCLUSION ON CHARGES  

In conclusion, according to the evidence in front of me, the court is likely to convict Mr Newstead of S 9, but it will be helpful to obtain confirmation of EZEssayz ownership through Company House website and a written statement from Mr Newstead, which will further establish the purpose of the EZEssayz existence. 



Restraining Order 

In my opinion to prevent Mr Newstead from continuing to spend the money from his business is to obtain restraining order from the court before the start of proceedings in the given case. In order to obtain restraining order against any realisable property, it is imminent to provide reasonable grounds to suspect that he has benefitted from criminal conduct and there is a risk of dissipation of his assets, if an order is denied. It should name his wife as a third party, who hold assets (in any form) over which Mr Newstead has beneficial ownership. Disclosure orders should also be requested. No order is required against any other party. 

All of Mr Newstead’s assets should be restrained. The restraining order should state that the order includes but is not limited to, Matrimonial Home and all the three UK Bank Accounts (EZEssay’s Business Account; Mr Newstead’s personal account; Mrs Newstead’s personal account). In addition, the ‘catch-all’ order restraining all his realisable assets will encompass any such account. 

THE TEST FOR OBTAINING A RESTRAINING ORDER

REASONABLE GROUNDS TO SUSPECT CRIMINAL CONDUCT

Wessex Police has started investigation against Mr Newstead. However, there must also be reasonable grounds to suspect that the alleged offender has benefited from his criminal conduct (S 40(2)(b) Proceeds of Crime Act 2002 (POCA 2002)). 

CONCLUSION ON REASONABLE GROUNDS TO SUSPECT CRIMINAL CONDUCT

At present the evidence available to me likely to satisfy the requirement of reasonable grounds to suspect that Mr Newstead may have committed the offence of carry on a business for fraudulent purpose (S9 of FA 2006). The explanation is present above.



REASONABLE GROUNDS TO SUSPECT BENEFIT FROM CRIMINAL CONDUCT

It is in my opinion that the WPFIUR provides the reasonable grounds to suspect that Mr Newstead has benefitted from the criminal conduct which was mentioned above. 

RISK OF DISSIPATION

In addition to the statutory test the court must also be satisfied that there is a risk of dissipation (Re B [2008] EWCA Crim 1374). It is my opinion that there is a risk of dissipation in Mr Newstead’s case. 

The reason is that Mr Newstead can transfer his mortgage on to someone else. Further, he can withdraw the money held in the UK bank accounts to pay for any outstanding bill, service or simply spend it to avoid implication of the retraining order. The money that was sent to Ms Newstead is the tainted gift and makes her the receiver of it, therefore, must be recovered too. 

CONCLUSION ON WHETHER A RESTRAINING ORDER SHOULD BE OBTAINED 

It is my opinion that a restraint order must be obtained against Mr Newstead and Mrs Newstead. However, the confiscation order against Mrs Newstead must be in proportion to the value of the tainted gift.

ASSETS TO BE RESTRAINED 

BANK ACCOUNTS IN UK

They are evident from the WPFIU report: 

HSBC Business Account (Sort Code- 40-10-02; Account Number- 00742939)

Mr Newstead holds the account for EZEssayz. 

The name on the account is Charles Newstead t/as EZessayz.

He is the sole signatory. 

The account was opened in August 2020, since then £70,000 had been paid into the account. 

Since January 2021, £3500 per month had been transferred into Mr Newstead’s personal account., in total £59,500 had been transferred till now. 

However, the business account is currently in credit. 



HSBC Current Account (Sort Code- 40-10-02; Account Number- 00456783)

Mr Newstead’s holds this current account. 

It receives £3500 deposit every month from the EZEssayz’s account. 

There are no other sources of regular income.

HOME

It was provided in the instructions that according to WPFIU report, Mr Newstead had used the proceeds from EZEssayz to pay the mortgage on a luxury home in Chigford. However, it is important to determine the legal ownership of the property. 

CONCLUSION ON WHICH ASSETS SHOULD BE RESTRAINED

It is my opinion that a restraint order should be requested in connection to all of Mr Newstead’s bank accounts and assets; Ms Newstead’s HSBC current bank account (Sort Code- 40-10-02; Account Number- 10427534). The order should state that the order includes but is not limited to, Chigford property, the bank accounts in UK. There are insufficient details about Chigford property but the ‘catch-all’ order restraining all his assets will encompass any such amount. 

ANCILLARY ORDERS

An application should be made for a disclosure order. Requiring Mr Newstead to disclose all his assets, whether in UK or not. The disclosure order should also require Mr Newstead to disclose list of all direct debits and standing orders on all three bank accounts and provide the name(s) of legal owner on the property in Chigford. In addition, those instructing must also make an application under S 41(7) (7D) to restrict Mr and Mrs Newstead’s from travelling to Spain in August 2022 for holiday. 

OTHER ISSUES

The other issue is related to Mr Newton’s daughter (Xena). This issue is likely to be subject to application to vary the restraint order should it be granted because those instructing are aware of it at this early stage, it is important that it is brought to the attention of the judge to ensure compliance with the duty of full and frank disclosure. 

NURSURY FEES

Under S 41(3)(a) a restraint order may make provision for reasonable living expenses. The question for the court would be whether the release of Nursery fees should fall within this provision. 

It has long been accepted that restraint order can be varied to make payments to support family members. In Re Peters [1988] QB 871, it was held that such payments can be made to support a child’s education. Therefore, as Xena is a 2-years-old child and she is dependent on Mr Newstead’s financial support, the court is likely to allow this variation to the restraint order. 

CONCLUSION AND NEXT STEPS

In my opinion, the court is likely to find Ms Yeoh in contempt of S 2 of the FA 2006 in the light of given evidence and further evidence can be beneficial to determine any defence she may raise in her case. The court is also likely to find Mr Newstead in contempt of S 9 of the FA 2006 considering given evidence and further evidence can be beneficial to understand any defence that may be erect by him. Further, a restraint order must be obtained from the court to stop Mr Newstead from continuing to spend from his business.

Those instructing should take following steps to progress the application for restraint order: 

An application should be made to the Crown Court for a restraint order as a matter of urgency over the assets and bank accounts of Mr Newstead and Mrs Newstead’s bank account. The application can be made by either prosecutor or an accredited financial investigator (S 42 (2) POCA 2002). The application must be in writing and supported by witness statement, which must (a) give the grounds for the application; (b) to the best of the witness’s ability, give full details of the realisable property in respect of which the order is sought and specify the person holding that property; (c) explain the grounds for and provide full details of, any ancillary order; and (d) if the application is being made by a financial investigator, include a statement to the effect that he has been authorised to make the application under S 68 POCA 2002 (Criminal Procedure Rules 2020, r33.51).

The application should be served at the same time as any investigation order (such as S 2 Criminal Justice Act 1987 notice) to reduce the risk of dissipation of assets or destruction of material which could be valuable to the investigation. 

If I can be of any further assistance, please do not hesitate to contact me. 



I. Malik

Lincoln’s Inn Chambers

8 June 2022

--- END OF FILE: 4801 Legal Opinion Fraud and Economic Crimes.docx ---


--- START OF FILE: 4801 Legal Research and Opinion Writing.docx ---

RE: DRILL HALL MUSEUM LIMITED





OPINION





I am asked to advise Mr Gerald Hunter (a principal of Drill Hall Museum Limited) and his insurers on namely, the prospects of success of a contractual claim against Mr Colin Jones or his firm, the liability of Vivus LLP and its individual members for the contractual breach by Mr Jones, evidence, and procedure.

SUMMARY OF FACTS 

A written contract was signed between Drill Hall Museum (represented by Mr Hunter) and Vivus LLP (represented by Mr Jones) sometime after 25th of January 2021, when Mr Jones met Mr Hunter to discuss his ideas for the haphazard project in dispute. The prove of the contract is not fasten to the case papers, therefore it is difficult to establish who signed the said contract on behalf of the Vivus LLP. However, it is an irrebuttable presumption that Mr Jones was acting as an agent, employee, or extension of Vivus LLP as per facts in the given case papers. 

Moreover, according to the case papers, the said contract involved Mr Jones drawing up designs, chose the materials, sought local authority planning permission and approval for the commencement of work and supervise the builder’s work, signing it off at each stage. On the other hand, Mr Hunter was only responsible for making payments after a stage is cleared. 

Further, it is given in the case papers that Mr Jones’ flawed design consisted of replacement of laying new roof constituted of Diaplex glass in a steel frame, removal of the inner wall and install a café and modern toilets (refectory).

The work related to modernisation of the refectory, overhauling of the roof and removal of the inner wall began in April 2021 and completed by middle of June. However, Haphazard planning (established through email exchanges between Mr Brian Hodges of Truforth Builders Ltd and Mr Jones) led to issues with trapping of extreme heat in summer and no insulation, to stop the loss of heat in winter. 

Therefore, Mr Hunter invited Ms Helen Padstow to inspect the building on 10th of February 2022. Her findings were that Mr Jones chose wrong variety of glass to overhaul the roof because Diaplex glass does not have an ultra-violet filter or tinting to reduce sun glare and carbamide polymer coating for ease of cleaning, which is common for glass roof panel. 

Further, she wrote in her report that Diaplex glass is used in public places and not suitable for laying in the roof as per manufacturers guidelines. Moreover, the removal of the inner wall was a wrong decision taken by Mr Jones because it was the support for the outer walls, which caused slight inward movement of the outer walls. The movement of the outer walls had been transmitted upwards via steel framework and contributed to the risk of Diaplex glass shattering. Full details related to inspection is present in her report submitted on 15 February 2022 via the letter. In accordance with her advice Mr Hunter securely closed the museum and informed the local authority about it. 

It was provided by those instructing that Ms Padstow advised that the cost of remedial work mentioned above will be approximately £80,000 but no proof of the advice has been fastened to the case papers. 

However, Mr Jones called Mr Hunter denying Ms Padstow’s report, citing her competence in inspection of the said building as a reason. 

SUMMARY OF ADVICE

In my opinion, the success of a contractual claim against Mr Jones or his firm is highly likely to succeed because Ms Padstow’s report of 15 February 2022 and email exchanges between Mr Jones and Truforth Builders Ltd representative, Mr Hodges unequivocally manifest Mr John’s negligence and lack of skills in using Diaplex glass for the roof overhauling and removal of the supporting inner wall. 

In my opinion, Mr Jones’ employer Vivus LLP and its individual members, are highly likely to be found vicariously liable by the court for the negligence of their agent and/or (architect) Mr Jones. Secondly, it is pertinent to understand that Vivus LLP is a separate legal entity, it is liable to the full extent of its assets but liability of the partners is limited to their agreed contribution in the LLP. Therefore, Mr Hunter must put a claim, after consider ADR, against Vivus LLP and its members and there is a good chance that the claim will succeed. 

In my opinion, the evidence present in the case papers is sufficient to put through successful claim against Vivus LLP. Nevertheless, it is necessary to acquire proof of £80,000 estimate for remedial work from Ms Padstow because it is necessary to show the court, basis for damages sought in a claim. 

In my opinion Mr Hunter should claim from Vivus LLP rather than Mr Jones because it will increase the chances of obtaining maximum damages in his claim. The reason for latter statement is that Vivus LLP and its individual members liability is to the extent of company’s full assets and their individual share, respectively, albeit Mr Jones liability will be restricted to his financial standing. 

Drill Hall Museum Limited must try arbitration form of alternate dispute resolution (ADR) with Vivus Ltd at first instance, before issuing claim in County Court. The reason for latter statement is that considering ADR is a part of overriding objective. It is a duty of each party involved in a dispute to assist the court to further overriding objective by considering ADR before trial, otherwise court may impose cost sanction for not complying with this duty. The procedure for issuing claim is given in the relevant section below. 

LIABILITY

Contract

It is given in Mr Hunter’s witness statement that he entered in to a written contract as a principal of the Drill Hall Museum Limited. However, it is not explicit that Mr Hunter signed the contract with another principal of the Vivus LLP or Mr Jones as the principal authority. Therefore, a prove of the written contract is vital to my opinion. However, it is provided by those instructing that Mr Jones was the principal architect installed by Vivus LLP to oversee the haphazard project in question. Therefore, it becomes an irrebuttable presumption that Vivus LLP went in to contract with Mr Hunter and Mr Jones was sent as its employee to oversee the haphazard project in question. 

Explicit terms:

Presently, those instructing only fastened an extract of explicit term number 3 (architect/consultant’s responsibilities) of the said contract. Which binds the architect/consultant subconscious to exercise reasonable skill, care and diligence while undertaking the work under the said contract. In my opinion, the term is sufficient to establish Mr Jones duty and obligation under the said contract as it manifests Mr Jones’ duty under the said contract. 

Implied terms:

At the time of writing this opinion, the contract for supply of services is governed by Supply of Goods and Services Act 1982 (‘SGSA 1982’). Section 13 of the SGSA 1982 inserts an implied term related to the contract that it is a duty, where supplier of services is acting during a business, that they must carry out the service with reasonable care and skill. Therefore, Mr Jones was bound to carry out his duties under contract with reasonable care and skill. Consequently, the authority of Young and Marten Ltd v McManus Childs (1968) 3 W.L.R. 360 applies in this case, which provides that there is no dispute that contractor’s liability for work done is that it must be done with all proper skill and care. It is important to establish that architect/engineer has failed to exercise due skill and care as to ensure that his design did not lack buildability. 

There was an implied warranty by Mr Jones that the modernisation of the Museum will be suitable for its purpose that is to attract visitors. Mr Jones knew or ought to have known by the virtue of British standard code of practice that roof needs to be tinted to reduce the sun glare and must have heat insulation system in place to keep the hall warm in winter. The authority of Greaves & Co (Contractors) Ltd v Baynham Meikle & Partners [1975] 1 W.L.R. 1095 is that basis for this insertion. 

The contractual duty

As mentioned above, a prove of written contract is vital to my opinion, the said contract was formed between Drill Hall Museum Limited (Mr Hunter as a principal) and Vivus Limited Liability Partnership (Vivus LLP). Mr Jones was appointed as an architect of the firm supervising the haphazard project in question. According to the case paper in front of me, the duties of Mr Jones under the contract were to draw plans for the haphazard project in question, supervise the builders’ (Truforth Builders Ltd) work, certifying the completion of each stage of the work to industry standards and approving the release of payment to the builders. 

Breach of Contract 

The breach of the said contract was found later after the completion of the renovation of the museum. There were no issues found with modernisation of the refectory, however issues are related to overhauling of the roof and removal of the inner wall. The reasons listed in the following paragraphs, are the grounds of breach of the contract in question.

According to witness statement of Mr Hunter, the haphazard project in question (construction work) began in April 2021 and completed by middle of June (in Summer). Nevertheless, within a week after completion of haphazard project in question, Mr Hunter came to know that due to new glass roof (Diaplex glass), the unshaded entry hall was trapping a huge amount of heat from the sun blazing down through the glass, which caused customers to feel heat exhaustion and museum was receiving bad remarks online, which was detrimental for the business. 

Moving along, in Autumn and Winter inverse had happened, where the said premises lose heat even though heating system was working efficiently and customer felt cold even though heating was kept on all night on numerous occasions. After receiving negative remarks related to the situation in the Museum, Mr Hunter invited Ms Padstow to inspect the building in question on the 10th of February 2022. 

Ms Padstow sent her report on 15 February 2022 via a letter to Mr Hunter. The overview of the report is that the choice of Diaplex glass is highly unusual for the haphazard project in question and removal of the inner wall was a negligent decision and shows lack of skills from a competent architect like Mr Jones. 

It is also submitted in the report that it is a common knowledge among designers or architects that Diaplex glass is not recommended by its manufacturer for installation unless installed vertically, with the weight of each pane distributed along the entire edge in to a continuous grooved housing on all four sides. However, Mr Jones advanced Diaplex glass roof panels for overhauling of the roof with no regard for stresses arising at corner attachment points. Mr Jones directed the use of Leoprene rubber housings to make up for not having continuous attachments along the edges, albeit this method did not solve the issue of mechanical stresses setup through the whole pane, when fixing it only at the corners. Ms Padstow alleged in her report that slight inward of the outer walls following removal of the inner wall, may have transmitted the movement upwards via steel framework, which has contributed to the stress in the glass and now it is at risk of shattering, releasing that energy.

Further, she reported that identification of support bearing walls is a basic requirement for architects, involved in building works. The layout of the building makes it obvious that the removed wall was a supporting wall, i.e., supporting the original roof and the outer walls against inward movement. 

Further, email exchanges between Builders and Mr Jones on 05 Aril 2021, manifest the lack of care and skill shown by Mr Jones while his duty under the said contract. 

In conclusion, Ms Padstow’s report and email exchanges between builders are the evidences, which proves that a breach of the contract has occurred due to Mr Jones negligence and lack of skills as an architect. 

Defences 

In my opinion, Mr Jones does not have a defence because an expert’s (Ms Padstow) report and email exchanges between him and the builders, are clear evidences of his lack of care and skill in conduct of his duty under the contract, which aggregates to become breach of the said contract, in specific breach of express term (given in the case papers), implied statutory term and implied warranty, mentioned above. 

According to Mr Hunter’s witness statement Mr John did not accept any negligence on his part and does not accept Ms Padstow’s inspection report, citing her lack of competence as the reason for rejection of the report. In the same breath Mr Jones said to Mr Hunter that he should have consulted him first in the matters related to the renovation of the museum, which indicates towards his guilt. 

Causation 

In my opinion, it is apparent through Ms Padstow’s report that Mr Jones was negligent in performing his duty under the said contract. Moreover, evidence of emails exchanged between Mr Jones and the builders (Truforth Builders Ltd) represented by Mr Brian Hodges, where the builders enquired from Mr Jones through an email on 05 April 2021 that they have concern related to Diaplex panels because they have never come across these in building work and precaution related to removal of inner wall, on the same day, but later Mr Jones replied to the email stating that the Diaplex panels can be bought from Glass solutions plc and inner wall has no importance, it is not a supporting wall, therefore no special arrangement needed, proves that Mr Jones lacks skills to perform his duty as an architect because he orders and/or allowed the use of Diaplex glass roof in overhauling of museum’s roof and removal of the inner wall, which was the support of the outer walls, made the project in dispute, haphazard.

In my opinion the evidences and its analysis mentioned in the above paragraph, creates a high probability that the court will find Mr Jones negligent and lacks skill to perform under the said contract, therefore, his lack of care and skill to perform his duty as an architect in the haphazard project in question is the cause of breach of the contract.

Liability of Vivus LLP  

In my opinion, based on the authority of Smith v Stages [1989] AC 928, which provides that the test for determining whether an employee was acting in the course of his employment is that whether he was going about his employer’s business at the material time, the application of the test on the facts of our case show beyond doubt that the Vivus LLP will be vicariously liable for the negligence and lack of skills shown by Mr Jones under the said contract because Mr Jones was an agent and/or architect of the limited liability partnership providing service of an architect to Drill Hall Museum Limited at the material time. Therefore, based on above reasons, it is a high probability that court will find Vivus LLP vicariously liable for the breaches of Mr Jones. 

Quantum

The service provided by Vivus LLP did not conform with the expected performance under the contract therefore damages for breach of contract are intended to put the Drill Hall Museum Limited (claimant) in to the position, they would have been in, if Mr Jones, an architect from Vivus LLP had not breached the contract, it is also called expectation loss. According to those instructing, Ms Padstow advised that the cost of remedial work will be around £80,000. Hence, based on experts estimates and report, in my opinion, it is a high probability that court will award £80,000 damages to Mr Hunter, given that the proof of estimate by Ms Padstow is presented to the court during the litigation. 

Evidence:

Witness statement of Mr Gerald Hunter 

In my opinion, the witness statement is the direct testimony of Mr Hunter and evidence laying out all the facts in the case. Therefore, based on his testimony, there will be his Examination-in-chief by his advocate and later, he will be cross-examined by defendant’s advocate. He can be the first prosecution witness in this case. 

Extract from written agreement entered by Drill Hall Museum Limited

In my opinion, the extract will provide the reason for breach of contract and proves causation of the injury. Precisely, it will provide evidence of Mr Jones liability under the contract, therefore it is documentary evidence in this case. 

Letter from Helen Padstow, Structural Engineer

In my opinion, the letter is an expert opinion, which establishes Mr Jones haphazard project planning. It will be a circumstantial evidence of Mr Jones’ negligence in performance of his duty under the said contract. 

Emails between Mr Colin Jones and Truforth 

In my opinion, it will be a conclusive evidence of Mr Jones’ negligence and lack of skills because it is explicitly written in the emails that he allowed the order of Diaplex glass roof to be used in overhauling of the roof and removal of inner supportive wall without taking precautions.

Proof of estimate

It is vital to acquire prove of estimate provided by Ms Padstow for remedial work.

Alternate Dispute Resolution (ADR)

Once all the of the evidence has been collected, I would urge Mr Hunter to consider some form of ADR, most likely arbitration. The advantage of using this form of ADR is that the parties can select an arbitrator with appropriate expertise and experience, the process is private, many aspects of the process can be tailored to the needs of a specific dispute, each party selects, what material is submitted and the process can be relatively structured if that is attractive to the parties. In summary, the process can be relatively simple and cost effective, if the dispute is based on written submissions rather than a hearing of it. It is pertinent to mention that court will take in to consideration whether parties tried ADR before issuing of the claim because it is a duty of both the parties to assist court in furtherance of alternative dispute resolution as per over-riding objective, otherwise court will penalise the parties likely through cost. 

Procedure

In my opinion, the value of the claim is £80,000 (according to CPR r 16.3). Therefore, the claim must be issued in County Court. It will be a part 7 claim.

The procedure to issue a claim is that the Drill Hall Museum Limited (claimant) will write a letter of notification to the Vivus LLP (defendant), giving brief details to enable Vivus LLP to notify its insurers. Then parties will consider any rehabilitation needs of the claimant. The claimant will write to the defendant inserting full details of the claim (which is called letter of claim), the defendant must acknowledge the letter of claim within 21 days. Then the defendant will investigate and send full letter of response within 3 months of letter acknowledging the claim. The response could be either acceptance of liability but quantum or denies liability in whole or part. Then both parties disclose key documents, engage in appropriate negotiations, and make proposals for settlement. The claimant must send schedule of losses giving details of losses. Then parties may Jointly select an expert for quantum of damages or the claimant discloses report (i.e., structural engineer report) and the defendant sends written questions. 

However, it is pertinent to mention that once claim form is issued, it must be served on the defendant with Particulars of Claim and response pack within 4 months after the issue. The claimant must file certificate of service in the court within 7 days of the service. Then defendant must file the acknowledgement of the service and defence after 14 days of the service of claim form with Particulars of Claim and response pack. In my opinion, it is highly likely that court will assign this case to multi-track case management and set a date of case management conference, where further direction related to deadline for disclosure of documents and trial date will be set. 

NEXT STEPS

In my opinion, the next step is to sought prove of estimate of £80,000 from Ms Padstow and start arbitration before issuing claim against Vivus LLP. If Vivus LLP is not willing to start the ADR process then Mr Hunter can commence litigation against Vivus LLP and its members and he will not be penalised by the court, albeit Vivus LLP may get penalised by the court. 

CONCLUSION:

In summary, it is evident through above reasoning that a claim against Mr Jones or his company Vivus LLP and its individual members, is highly likely to succeed, given the current evidence in front of me.

If any queries arises from this opinion, those instructing should not hesitate to contact me in chambers. 





INGRID BARRISTER

4 GRAY’S INN PLACE

LONDON WC1R 5DX

01 August 2022

--- END OF FILE: 4801 Legal Research and Opinion Writing.docx ---


--- START OF FILE: Appeal advocacy.docx ---

IN THE COUNTY COURT

BEFORE CCJ RISE	

 B E T W E E N:

(1) MR MARCUS CORNWALL

 (2) MS ANTONIA CORNWALL

Defendants/Proposed appellants





– and – 





Mr JEFFREY MORGAN



Claimant/Proposed respondent 





_________________________

GROUNDS OF APPEAL

PERMISSION HEARING

_________________________



Introduction 

XX [set out what you are applying for and provide a short summary of the facts suitable for an application to appeal on a point of law – unlike a first instance application you do NOT need to set out the law in CPR52- the focus is on the errors of law by the judge]



Ground 1: The learned judge erred in law in …



xxx



Ground 2: The learned judge …





xxx



Ground 3: 



XXX 

Conclusion and order sought 



For the reasons set out above, this court is invited to grant permission to appeal. 





Signed etc 



Note you can have fewer or more grounds. he Sample is 3 pages long. The aim is to identify concisely the errors of law by reference to the judgment. You are not re-running the trial

--- END OF FILE: Appeal advocacy.docx ---


--- START OF FILE: Morgan Sample Grounds of Appeal v.2.pdf ---

ADVSUB   _Sample  1   ©   City,   University   of   London   2022  IN THE COUNTY COURT  BEFORE CCJ RISE  B E T W E E N:  (1)   MR MARCUS CORNWALL  (2)   MS ANTONIA CORNWALL  Defendants/Proposed appellants  – and –  Mr JEFFREY MORGAN  Claimant/Proposed respondent  GROUNDS OF APPEAL PERMISSION HEARING  Introduction  1.   This is an application for permission to appeal the order of DJ Ross dated 8 December XXXX, by which he gave summary judgment against the proposed appellants ( Bundle/ 14 ). The proposed appellants, who were then acting in person, are an elderly retired couple who were seeking to defend a claim brought by a builder who had carried out some work on their house while engaged to add a conservatory. The essence of the appellants’ claim is that there were defects in the materials provided and in the work done.  Ground 1: The learned judge erred in law in failing to have regard to the implied term  2.   At #10 of his judgment   (Bundle/13)   the learned judge addressed the case put forward by the appellants as to the poor service they had received. He dismissed this part of the case because he concluded that the first defendant ‘could not, however, point to any express term which assisted his case on this’.
ADVSUB   _Sample  2   ©   City,   University   of   London   2022  3.   In confining himself to consideration of express terms, the learned judge erred in law. There is implied into every contract to supply a service, a term that the trader must perform the service with reasonable care and skill: s.49 Consumer Rights Act 2015. The defendants’ complaints, recorded by the learned judge himself, and comprising a ‘leak to the conservatory’; ‘the condition of the house after the works had been completed’; ( Bundle/18, 28)   clearly raised matters to which s.49 would apply.  4.   By section 54 of the 2015 Act, the defendants, if their case was made out at trial, had the right to,  inter alia , a price reduction, and therefore a defence.  Ground 2: The learned judge misdirected himself as to CPR 24.2  5.   At #11 of his judgment, the learned judge referred to the evidence produced before him by the claimant/respondent which appeared to show that the materials used were the same as for the Healy build ( Bundle/31–32).   The quality of the wood used was only one issue between the parties, the others being the quality of the services and the quality of the plastic fittings ( Bundle 28 ).  6.   Having reached a conclusion on the Healy issue, the learned judge misdirected himself in holding that   CPR 24.2   involves ‘an all or nothing approach.   CPR 24.2   allows summary judgment on a particular issue. The approach the judge should have taken was at most to give summary judgment on the issue of the quality of the wood. The evidence before him went no further than that.  Ground 3: Evidence: the learned judge took into account a legally irrelevant consideration alternatively misapplied the law  7.   At #12 ( Bundle/18 ), the learned judge criticised the appellants, then litigants in person, for not having provided any evidence and cited the example of photographs. He went on to state: ‘ I take this into account when considering   (the appellants’)   prospects of successfully defending the claim.’  ( 18 ).  8.   In so doing, the learned judge took into account a legally irrelevant consideration alternatively misapplied the law. An application for summary judgment should not be a mini-trial. When deciding
ADVSUB   _Sample  3   ©   City,   University   of   London   2022  whether the respondent has some real prospect of success, the court should not apply the standard which would be applicable at the trial, namely the balance of probabilities on the evidence presented; on an application for summary judgment the court should also consider the evidence that could reasonably be expected to be available at trial:   Royal Brompton Hospital NHS Trust v Hammond (No 5)   [2001] EWCA Civ 550 per Lord Aldous LJ #81-82:  81.   As appears from paragraphs 28–31 of the judgment, the judge struck out the timing claim against PMI because he perceived that there was a lack of material upon which the trial judge could find that any action by PMI would have resulted in AA producing the co- ordination drawings any earlier than they had. In essence, he concluded that the evidence did not show causation.  82.   When coming to the conclusion that he did, I do not believe the judge applied the correct standard of proof. He had to decide whether there was a real prospect of success not whether causation had been established on the balance of probabilities.  9.   It is submitted that the learned judge fell into similar error in this case.  Conclusion and order sought  10.   For the reasons set out above, this court is invited to grant permission to appeal.  ANNA PEEL LAUNCH CHAMBERS  January XXXX

--- END OF FILE: Morgan Sample Grounds of Appeal v.2.pdf ---


--- START OF FILE: Ms Watkins final Conference.docx ---

INTRODUCTION:

Good evening, Mr Watkins

My name is Barrister Ingrid- I will be representing you in the court 

We met today, so that I can advise you on what plea and venue to choose on next hearing date- 25 February 2022. However, it your decision whether to follow it or not. May I confirm whether you will be able to attend the hearing date? 

Mr. Probett from your solicitors’ office is also present in this meeting.

This meeting has 5 topics: I will-

Firstly, advise you on any preliminary issues; 

Secondly, ask you questions related to your case;

Thirdly, advise you on choice of plea;

Fourthly. advise you on choice of venue; and 

before conclusion, discuss with you sentencing.



I will be taking notes for my understanding, and remembrance during the meeting. I will respond to all your questions at the end of each topic or at end of the meeting.

I have read your case bundle and the instructions from your solicitors. Can you confirm that you have read it too?



PRELIMINARY ISSUE(s)



You were given Police Post arrest bail on 04th February till 11th February and further extended to 25th February. It means that you are discharged from custody until your court hearing date. 

There were two conditions attached to grant of bail, which are-  

You must reside at your home address (i.e., you are available for any inquiries or a report to help the court with sentencing);

You cannot contact any prosecution witness, either directly or indirectly (i.e., Not to contact directly or indirectly certain people involved in the criminal case).

I have been instructed to advice you on one of the conditions that is to reside at your home address, please tell me what is your issue with it?

If a defendant is reported or believed to have breached (gone against) a bail condition, they can be arrested and brought before a magistrates' court which may then place the person in custody.

Failing to appear at court as required is a criminal offence and they can also be prosecuted for this offence.

How can you vary a police bail?

If unfair or overly strict bail conditions- there are steps through which it can be removed or varied. The conditions must be necessary, reasonable, proportionate, and capable of being enforced. 

If they are not necessary, reasonable, or proportionate then- 

Apply to Magistrate Court for bail to vary conditions- It is possible to ask them to reconsider. 

If still not satisfied- then you can apply to Crown Court to vary your conditions. 

Please let the solicitors know of your decision about the application to varying bail conditions and they will instruct me accordingly. 

MAIN PART

Mr Watkins, you are charged with general thief, which means that you dishonestly intended to misappropriate, Mr Nelson’s Barbeque permanently without his consent. 

QUESTION TIME

Mr Watkins, I am aware that you deny the charges.

I have some questions about the case to form my advice.  

Area Questions



What is the structural layout of Tavistock Gardens Hackney?

How many existing/entry points are there in your house?

How is the lighting when it goes dark outside, in your area?

What is the crime level in your area?

What kind of security do you have in the house? 

What kind of security your neighbours have?

What kind of security is present in your area?

House No.4:

House:

Who owns the house?

Who else lives with you, permanently?

How long do you know each other?

How is your relationship with neighbours?

What is the level of visibility in your garden, when it goes dark outside? - do you have your lights switched on all night

How often do you check around or behind the shed?

Usually, what do you store behind the shed? 

Financial Situation:

 How is your financial situation?

The questions related to the issue:

Questions related to 20th December: DR-WS

What did you sell on that day?

What were the characteristics of the items?

What platform did you use to sell it? 

How did you find the buyer?

How did you communicate with them?

Who was the buyer?

What was their gender?

How does he look like? 

How did he come to pick up items?

What kind of van was it?

What was its colour?

What was its registration no?

How did he remove items from your home? -carry or dragging them

Why did you help him carry the goods? -establish table had no item had wheels

How, he paid for the items?

How much did he pay for the goods?

Who else was present while you were moving items to the van?

How long it took to complete the whole transaction?

Where was your partner at that point?

How can we contact, the buyer, to validate the sale?

Between September 2021 and 27th December: para 4 JN-WS

Questions related to movement of other items:

Why did you move other items (Outdoor Pizza Oven, Canvas Gazebo, Mountain Bike)?

What was your purpose of moving the items?

If you moved other items, why did not you move the barbeque?

When did you last noticed, the barbeque? (Para 6- JN-WS: barbecue in the garden)

Where was it placed?

Where can it go?

Why would you think Mr Nelson would like to throw away their barbecue?

Who else visited, other than Mr Nelson, at no.6 between 12th December and 27th Dec?

Where were the builders during this period?

Questions related to 27th December 2021:

What did you do before 7.30 p.m., on that day?

Para 7 JN-WS: why did you say, ‘you sold it’ and laughed? - Why did not you give a straight answer to Mr Nelson?

4th February Steven Webley Visit:

What did you do on the day of 04th February before 17.55?

When was the last time you checked behind the shed before today?

Who else used your garden between last check and the police search? 

How come Cosmo Cover and Metal Grill found behind your shed?

Para 4 SW-WS: “Oh sit” … “that’s it I am not answering anything else”- why did you responded in that way?

What did you think police will infer from your response?

Interview Transcript:

Q7, Q8, Q9, Q10, Q11, Q12: 

Why did you say, it was not hidden?

Why did not you reply to the queries?

LAST QUESTIONS:

Why do you want Mr Nelson to learn a lesson?

Whose fingerprints are expected on Cosmo Cover and Metal Grill if they are forensically examined. 

Thank you, Mr Watkins, these were all the questions I wanted to ask to form my advice related to your case. 



ADVICE

You have a plausible defence because you did not steal and sell the Barbeque; it is for the prosecution to prove to the standard of Sure that you had dishonest intention to permanently deprive Mr Nelson of the barbeque without his consent. 

As you said you did not steal and sell the barbeque then, you should plead not guilty.



Strength:

There is no absolute evidence establishing your guilt, it is your words against Mr Nelsons and Mr Rose’s words; the presence of Cosmo Cover and Metal Grill- which is for prosecution to establish, that you put them behind the shed. 

The court may infer from the following events- during 2020, you made a Complaint to the council related to the state of Mr Nelson’s Garden and resultantly, he does not speak to you- para 3 JN-WS; non-promptness shown by Mr Nelson in making complaint against you; delay in repair of panels by Mr Nelson, that Mr Nelson had a grudge against you that is why he fabricated the allegation, and started a vexatious claim. 

As you have no previous criminal record, therefore you are eligible for good character defence.

If Cosmo Cover and Metal Grill will be forensically examined and subsequently, your finger prints are not found on it, it will support your case. 



Weakness: 

The other stuff (Outdoor Pizza Oven, Canvas Gazebo, Mountain Bike) found on your side of garden and subsequently, your admission about moving them without explanation. 

Your reply to Mr Nelson on 27th Dec about loss of barbeque and your admission to sell it with laugh.

No explanation to arresting office about the charges that he laid against you. 

Your silence in interview.

Your sale of items in December. 

Finding of Cosmo Cover and Metal Grill behind your shed.

Mr Watkins, if you were to plead guilty- the court may reduce the likely sentence. The earlier it is, the greater the credit.

Mr Watkins, do you have any questions?



Mr Watkins, may I know how will you plead?





VENUE



You are charged with general theft of barbeque belonging to Mr Nelson which was worth £459 in 2019. It is an either-way offence. Therefore, can be tried in Magistrate or Crown Court.

Summary only offences are tried in Magistrate Court. Where a judge will decide the case and give the order.

However, indictable offences are tried in Crown Court. Where judge will decide on matter of law and jury (consist of lay people from the community) will deliver binding verdict on the case.



Pros and Cons of each court:



Magistrate Court: 

Cases in Magistrate Court are decided relatively quicker than in Crown Court. 

The entire process is less formalised.

It saves time and cost. 

Moreover, Magistrate court’s sentencing powers are limited to maximum of 6 months custody or up to band C fine on one count of offence.



Crown Court: 

However, in Crown Court, you have a bench of lay people known as jury delivering the deciding verdict, which means that if your case is weak on the point of law or evidence than you can persuade the jury on the facts of the case in your favour. 

The entire process is formal. 

It will be costly than the Magistrate Court. 

The entire process will take longer time than in Magistrate Court. 

Their sentencing power is equals to the maximum sentence recommended under statutory provision. 

They have unlimited power to award any band of fine. 



When can the client elect Crown court trial? 



Mr Watkins, on your next hearing you will be given a choice to elect any of the above venue. If you want jury to decide your case, then you may choose Crown Court, otherwise Magistrate Court is the good option.



My advice is that you may choose to run your trial in Magistrate Court because the entire process will be cost and time effective and less formal; it is for prosecution to make court ‘SURE’ of your guilt. However, if they were unable to do so, then we can submit ‘No Case to Answer’ application at end of their presentation to secure your acquittal. However, it all depends on the evidence that is in front of me today and contingent on result of forensic test, if ordered by the court. 



Mr Watkins, may I know which venue would you elect?





SENTENCE:  

The judge will follow sentencing guidelines to find appropriate sentence:

First, the judge will find the level of harm and culpability, in which general theft falls in. 

To find out starting point and category range, Judge will use guidance from the cross table- which consists of 4 levels of harm and 3 types of culpability columns. 



Starting point 

Range

Band A Fine (25-75% of relevant weekly income)

Discharge- Band B fine



Mr Watkins, the starting point for this offence is a Band A fine; starting range is Discharge.

The court should then consider adjustment for any aggravating or mitigating factors: 

Aggravating factors are the ones which increases the likely sentence and mitigating factors are those which decrease the sentence, like- No previous convictions or no relevant/recent convictions; Previous good character and/or exemplary conduct; Demonstration of steps taken to address offending behaviour. Any factors which indicate a reduction like- assistance to the prosecution and reduction for guilty pleas. 



In event, you found guilty by the court, rest assured, I will persuade, the court to impose minimum level of fine, considering your situation. 



CONCLUSION:





Mr, Watkins, before ending this meeting, I would like to say that we will have more conferences like this in future related to your case, where you will have an opportunity to raise any concern.

 

Mr Watkins, I would like to confirm that you will plead not guilty, and you will elect Magistrate’s court to run your trial.



Mr Watkins, if you have any query related to the matter discussed above, you can ask me now?



Mr Watkins, I remind you that your Court hearing date is on 25th February, please arrive on time by 10:00 a.m., at Thames Magistrates’ Court. 



Thank you for joining me in this meeting.

--- END OF FILE: Ms Watkins final Conference.docx ---


--- START OF FILE: Pemberton sample opinion on liability.pdf ---

©   City,   University   of   London   202 1  Page   1   of   9  LROPW-PEMBERTON-03-2122-OPW  1  Legal Research and Opinion Writing  Pemberton v Short   (Part 2)  Sample opinion (liability)
©   City,   University   of   London   202 1  Page   2   of   9  LROPW-PEMBERTON-03-2122-OPW  1  RE: MR. MARK PEMBERTON  OPINION  1.   I am asked to advise Mr Mark Pemberton regarding the prospects of success of a potential contractual claim against Mr Geoff Short (who trades as Quality Windows). I am also asked to advise on the potential defence and counterclaim, and on the steps required to progress the claim.  Summary of facts  2.   Mr Pemberton is the owner of a house known as ‘Prandergast’, Maltings Lane, Ockhurst, Surrey ('the house'). At Christmas 2020 he decided to renovate the house, starting with the doors and windows. He had specific requirements in mind, including a Georgian style and the use of hardwood. In February 2021 he discussed this with Mr Short. On 2 March 2021 there was a meeting at the house at which his requirements were discussed in detail, followed by a further meeting on 7 April 2021. There were also telephone conversations between Mr Pemberton and Mr Short on 9 April during which designs and materials were discussed.  3.   A quotation for the work dated 14 April for a total price of £80,000 plus VAT (£96,000) was sent to Mr Pemberton. He accepted this by telephone on 16 April, and made a first payment of £48,000 as agreed. Installation work started on 1 July 2021. Mr Pemberton went abroad on business, but on returning at the end of the week was very concerned to find serious problems with the work. The most important of these was that the doors were only six feet tall, shorter than his own height.  4.   Later inspections have produced concerns that the frames of the windows and French doors, and the solid rear and front doors, have not been made of hardwood (mahogany) as agreed, but rather of softwood (Douglas fir). Mr Pemberton wishes to avoid paying the balance of the price, and to reclaim what he has already paid.  Summary of advice  5.   In my opinion, based on the evidence before me at present, Mr Pemberton has good prospects (60 to 80 per cent) of successfully establishing a range of breaches of the express and statutory terms of the contract, in particular as regards the timber used, the height of the doors and defects in the fitting of some of the window and door units. The claim is at a very early stage and the nature of Mr Short’s case and the evidence he may rely upon has not yet been established. Liability will have to be reviewed when more information is available about Mr Short’s likely defence and further evidence requested in this opinion has been obtained.  6.   This case is best viewed as one of defective performance rather than a failure by Mr Short to discharge any of his contractual obligations. At common law it is not
©   City,   University   of   London   202 1  Page   3   of   9  LROPW-PEMBERTON-03-2122-OPW  1  arguable that Mr Pemberton should be relieved of paying the balance of the price or be entitled to his money back. However, under the Consumer Rights Act 2015 ('CRA 2015') Mr Pemberton has a strong case (80 per cent plus) that he has the right to a price reduction. As I have not been asked to advise on quantum, I will deal with these points only in so far as they are relevant to liability.  Contract  7.   The contract was concluded on 16 April 2021 when Mr Pemberton accepted Mr Short’s quotation by phone. The heading of the quotation dated 14 April indicates that ‘Quality Windows’ is simply Mr Short’s trading name rather than a partnership or limited liability company, but please would instructing solicitors checkthis? Mr Short may argue that the quotation is a written contract. This would do Mr Pemberton’s case no great harm as it expressly incorporates the discussions of 2 March and 7 and 9 April. However, the claim will be stronger when the contract is framed as being oral and partly evidenced in writing by the quotation. This would result in anything agreed on the telephone on 16 April becoming terms of the contract. For this purpose, please would my instructing solicitors obtain more information from Mr Pemberton regarding what was said in the telephone conversation of 16 April?  8.   CRA 2015 applies to supply and services contracts between traders and consumers, and applies equally to oral and written contracts (s.1(2)). Mr Pemberton will be able to rely on the Act because he is a consumer (an individual entering into the contract for purposes wholly or mainly outside his trade, business, craft or profession (s.2(3)). Mr Short is a trader because he was acting for purposes relating to his trade or business (s.2(3)). This will be a 'mixed contract' (s.1(4)) for the supply of goods (the materials used in the construction work) and for services (the design and installation). There is unlikely to be any dispute that the CRA 2015 applies to this contract.  Express terms  9.   Mr Pemberton can rely on express terms about the goods supplied to him by Mr Short because these must conform to the requirements that are stated in the contract (CRA 2015, s.19(1)(c)). Mr Pemberton can rely on one express term, namely that the French doors, window frames and solid front and rear doors would be made of hardwood, and that the hardwood to be used was mahogany. The burden will be on Mr Pemberton to prove what was agreed orally on 2 March and 7, 9 and 16 April. While an oral contract is, in principle, as binding as a written one, it can be more difficult to prove express terms if the evidence consists of one person’s word against another’s.  Hardwood / Mahogany  10.   Although a formal reply to the letter before claim has not yet been received, the existence of a term to use hardwood (mahogany) does not appear to be in dispute. I note from my instructions that Mr Short appears to be insisting that mahogany was used. If he changes his position on this, the following will be relevant. The express term is supported by the preliminary expert report from Mr Miller of A1 Glazing. He says that Mr Short's £80,000 price (excl.VAT) was consistent with hardwood (mahogany) which is about £26,000 more expensive than the softwood price would
©   City,   University   of   London   202 1  Page   4   of   9  LROPW-PEMBERTON-03-2122-OPW  1  have been. The £80,000 price is also similar to the £85,000 that Mr Miller says it will cost to replace all the windows and doors using hardwood. It is also significant that apparently only hardwood samples were brought to the meeting on 7 April.  Please could this be confirmed? It would be useful if those instructing me would ascertain whether any of those samples are still with Mr Pemberton, especially the particular sample of mahogany that was chosen by him. If available this must of course be retained as evidence of what was agreed.  Evidence of any further express terms  11.   My instructing solicitors should obtain a fuller statement from Mr Pemberton dealing with the discussions on 2 March, 7 April, 9 April to assist in assessing the strength of the evidence available to prove the above term and any others that may emerge. I must emphasise to Mr Pemberton that what matters is what was said and agreed, rather than what Mr Pemberton said he wanted. It would be of assistance if anyone else was present during any of the discussions who mightrecollect what was said. Did Mr Pemberton keep any notes? If so, these should be obtained.  12.   In due course there will be disclosure of any relevant notes, working drawings or other written material held by Mr Short. A clearer view can then be taken on the prospect of establishing an express term that mahogany would be used. I advise that a separate term for the use of hardwood also be alleged to protect Mr Pemberton’s position in the event that Mahogany cannot be proved. If, as seems likely, Mr Short agrees in a pleaded Defence that Mahogany was expressly agreed, proof will of course be unnecessary.  13.   Based on the evidence before me at present, my provisional view is that Mr Pemberton has good prospects of establishing express terms that:  a.   The doors and window frames would be of hardwood (discussion of 2 March).  b.   The hardwood to be used would be of mahogany (discussion of 7 April and samples shown).  c.   50 per cent of the agreed price would be payable on acceptance of the quotation, with the balance payable on completion of the works (the quotation).  Statutory terms  14.   Given that this was a mixed contract governed by the CRA 2015:  (a)   Anything said or written by Mr Short about his competence, expertise or the services he would provide was a term of the contract (s.50(1));  (b)   The quality of the goods supplied would be satisfactory (s.9(1));  (c)   The goods supplied under the contract would be reasonably fit for any particular purpose expressly or impliedly made known to Mr. Short (s.10);  (d)   Mr Short would perform the services agreed in the contract with reasonable care and skill (s.49(1)).
©   City,   University   of   London   202 1  Page   5   of   9  LROPW-PEMBERTON-03-2122-OPW  1  Competence and expertise  15.   The quotation asserts that Mr Short is a specialist in handmade windows and doors. At paragraph 2 of his draft statement Mr Pemberton goes further, and refers to Mr Short's specialisation in the design, manufacture and installation of handmade windows and doors in a variety of styles, using old and modern materials. Mr Pemberton should explain how he knows this (for the purposes of s.50, was it said or written by Mr Short?) and provide information on anything else that Mr Short might have said or written about his expertise. It is only information provided by Mr Short himself that is relevant in this, and only if it was taken into account by Mr Pemberton in deciding whether to enter into the contract with him. By becoming terms of the contract, these factors can be relied upon in building a case for Mr Pemberton.  Door height  16.   There was no express agreement about door height, so the success of Mr Pemberton’s claim on this will depend on whether a statutory term can be relied upon. Mr Miller’s report says that the doors were shorter than standard height. In my opinion, there are good prospects of establishing that the contract contained a statutory term under the CRA 2015, s.10 that the doors would be fit for the purpose expressly or impliedly made known to Mr Short. As Mr Short had met Mr Pemberton more than once, he would have been aware that Mr Pemberton is tall, and of the need to take into account his height when designing the doors for the purpose of providing a safe and convenient means of entering and exiting the house.  17.   Mr Short is likely to deny that the contract contained this statutory term in relation to the height of the doors, as he appears to be alleging that he made Mr Pemberton aware that the doors would be about six feet high after the installation of decorative windows above them (and that Mr Pemberton agreed to this). He can correctly say that the need for satisfactory quality does not apply to anything specifically drawn to the consumer's attention and agreed to before the contract is made (s.9(4)(a)) and the statutory term as to reasonable fitness for purpose does not apply if the consumer does not rely on the trader's skill or judgement (s.10(4)).  18.   Any argument that Mr Pemberton was aware of, and agreed to, the doors being six feet high would presumably be based on the discussion that occurred on 7 April when the possibility of having decorative windows above the doors was discussed. I do not think that Mr Short would succeed in this. Mr Pemberton is clear that he would not have agreed to the insertion of the decorative windows if he had been aware that this would reduce the door height to below six feet four inches. In addition Mr Miller undermines Mr Short’s argument by saying a door manufacturer should have sought and obtained express consent, and there was no reason to use doors of less than standard door height. A competent manufacturer would not designdoors lower than the height of their client. As the addition of decorative windows above the doors was not one of Mr Pemberton’s own design requirements, a judge is unlikely to be persuaded that he agreed to any lowering of the door height. Accordingly, I think that this contract will be held to have contained a statutory term that the doors would be fit for the particular purpose of enabling a man of six feet four inches to walk through them without stooping or hitting his head.  19.   There is no scope for implying terms about the height of the doors at common law,
©   City,   University   of   London   202 1  Page   6   of   9  LROPW-PEMBERTON-03-2122-OPW  1  because CRA 2015, s.18(1), provides that consumer contracts for the supply of goods do not contain any statutory or implied terms about quality other than those provided by the CRA 2015.  Poor workmanship  20.   Losses arising from the poor standard of workmanship should be addressed under the statutory term to exercise reasonable care and skill under the CRA 2015, s.49(1). The standard to be expected would depend on the expertise Mr Short held himself out as having, which is why I have pointed to s.50 above, and the need for inquiries about what Mr Short said or wrote about his expertise.  Breaches of contract  Breach of hardwood express term  21.   It seems clear from Mr Miller's report that the door and window units are not made from mahogany (or any other hardwood) but from Douglas fir – a softwood. If the claim goes to trial and Mr Short continues to allege that the units are in fact made from mahogany, it will be necessary to rely upon a formal independent report containing an expert opinion on the wood used. That report will be sufficient to prove breach of the express term on the choice of wood.  22.   In my instructions, Mr Short's solicitors are reported as saying that it was mahogany that was supplied to Mr Short for this work. It sounds somewhat incredible that as a specialist in handmade windows and doors, he would not recognise the kind of wood he was using (the error seems more likely to have arisen by failing to keep an accurate note of what was agreed and/or through an error by his timber supplier, but the reason is irrelevant to the claim. If he was let down by his timber supplier, Mr Short would remain contractually liable to Mr Pemberton and have a Part 20 claim against his supplier).  Breach of statutory term on door height  23.   Mr Pemberton has good prospects of establishing that there is a breach of the statutory term under s.10 to provide doors that were reasonably fit for the particular purpose of enabling a tall man to walk through them. The doors were not of standard door height, but rather were only six feet (1830mm) high. Mr Short appears to accept that the doors were about six feet high, but denies that this was a breach, alleging that Mr Pemberton was made aware of and content with the door height being reduced by the insertion of decorative windows above them. It is clear from paragraphs 2 and 3 of Mr Miller’s report that Mr Short should have designed doors to fit the full vertical space available for the doors. Mr Miller says that Mr Short should alternatively have obtained Mr Pemberton’s express consent for smaller doors. He says he did. But photographs of Mr Pemberton trying to stand under one of the doorways (with his feet visible) should persuade a judge of how unlikely such consent would have been. Those photos will need to be obtained.  24.   There are weak arguments that the doors were also not of satisfactory quality in under s.9. I do not think that merely being shorter than standard height will render
©   City,   University   of   London   202 1  Page   7   of   9  LROPW-PEMBERTON-03-2122-OPW  1  the doors unsatisfactory under CRA 2015 s.9(1). It might also be argued that the risk of Mr Pemberton hitting his head renders the door units unsafe, and therefore not of satisfactory quality under s.9(3)(d). However, I do not think that this would succeed either because there was nothing inherently unsafe or dangerous about these door units as goods. The strongest case will be made under CRA 2015, s.10.  Breach of statutory term on workmanship  25.   Mr Pemberton has good prospects of being able to establish that there is a breach of the statutory term contained in s.49 to use reasonable care and skill in installing the windows and doors, as described in paragraph 6 of Mr Miller’s report. In particular, there was a breach in that the frames are not properly screwed to the walls, creating gaps around the frames in four rooms. Those instructing me should obtain photographs of those gaps to illustrate the poor workmanship.  Payment or recovery of contract price  26.   The contract price is normally payable as the consideration promised by the consumer for the goods and services that the trader has in return promised to provide. Different outcomes are likely as to whether Mr Pemberton can get his money back at common law and under the CRA 2015.  Price at Common Law  27.   In order to avoid paying the balance of the price, and get back his initial part-payment of that price at common law, Mr Pemberton must show he has not received anything that he was promised. There are five technical bases for being relieved from the obligation to pay the price due under a contract. The one that best fits the facts of this case is whether a fundamental breach of contract has been accepted by Mr Pemberton, the innocent party, as a repudiation of the contract by the other party. This only releases Mr Pemberton from his obligation to pay the balance if there has been a total failure of consideration, in other words no more than minimal value received in return for the contract price.  28.   On the basis that using the wrong type of timber was a fundamental breach, what Mr Pemberton needed to do was to tell Mr Short that he was accepting the breach as discharging the contract. According to his draft statement (para 23), when he discovered the problems with the work Mr Pemberton told Mr Short that he would have to replace everything at his own expense. Mr Short refused. Mr Pemberton then said he would be claiming from Mr Short the cost of replacing all the windows and doors. In my opinion, the most likely interpretation of this evidence is that Mr Pemberton was asserting that the breach entitled him to damages. There is nothing in my papers to suggest that Mr Pemberton wished to terminate the contract. The letter before claim also puts the case as a claim for damages for breach of contract, and Mr Pemberton's words in July probably amount to affirming the contract, subject to his claim for damages. In any event, t is now too late to terminate the contract by accepting any repudiatory breaches.  29.   In any event, Mr Short did design, manufacture and install windows and doors at the
©   City,   University   of   London   202 1  Page   8   of   9  LROPW-PEMBERTON-03-2122-OPW  1  house as contracted. It is not arguable that there was a total failure of consideration. Further, the £48,000 that was paid by Mr Pemberton in April was almost certainly an agreed part payment. Even if Mr Pemberton were able to persuade the court that the contract was discharged for breach, it would only be a discharge from his own future obligation to pay the balance of the price. It would not give grounds for repayment to Mr Pemberton of his first payment of £48,000.  Price reduction under CRA 2015  30.   Under the CRA 2015, s.54(3)(b), one of the remedies available to a consumer for breach of the statutory terms under ss.49 and 50 relating to performance of a service is the right to a price reduction. Accordingly, it will be possible for Mr Pemberton to claim some or even all (s.56(2)) of his money back. A detailed consideration of this is more a question of remedies than liability, so I will not elaborate on this here.  Potential counterclaim  31.   My instructing solicitors anticipate that Mr Short will counterclaim the balance of the contract price, which remains unpaid. It would seem logical he should do so, on the basis that he contends he fulfilled his contractual obligations. He would use the quotation as evidence to prove the sum owed, and would have a simple claim for the unpaid balance of the price. There is a possibility of a defence to such a counterclaim in that the second instalment was due ‘on completion of the works’. Miller's report identifies the need for some minor snagging (beyond the more major breaches concerning timber and door height), but I do not think a judge would regard these minor snagging tasks as being part of the works. I think completion had been reached, so the balance remains payable, subject to the claim for damages.  Evidence  32.   I have indicated the need to collect certain items of evidence. It might assist my instructing solicitors to have a summary of it and other further information needed:  a.   further information from Mr Pemberton on the details of the discussions on 1 March and 7, 9 and 16 April, and on what happened on Mr Pemberton’s return on 7 July 2021;  b.   any other evidence that might support the oral express terms of the contract, if for example someone else was present or notes were kept;  c.   evidence showing the expertise Mr Short and Quality Windows held themselves out as having;  d.   photographs showing the defective workmanship and its results;  e.   photographs showing the mismatching of the bars;  f.   a formal expert report dealing with the type of timber used in the doors and windows, and the durability of Mahogany hardwood as against Douglas Fir softwood (this could be from a jointly instructed expert to save costs);  g.   confirmation of the business status of Quality Windows.
©   City,   University   of   London   202 1  Page   9   of   9  LROPW-PEMBERTON-03-2122-OPW  1  33.   In practical terms, this evidence is not all needed immediately. The gathering of further information from Mr Pemberton is most important, and a mobile phone will be quite sufficient when taking the photographs. The expert evidence is best left until the inquiries are more advanced, because specific comment will be needed on queries arising out of them.  34.   In due course, Mr Short will be required to disclose relevant documents. These were properly requested in the letter of claim and should be provided voluntarily. If not, disclosure and inspection will be available in the normal course of events after issue of the claim.  Next steps  35.   Instructing solicitors are, of course, right to suggest the use of ADR in this case in their letter before claim. In addition to pre-action requirements, this could assist in getting a reasonably quick and cost-effective outcome for Mr Pemberton. I anticipate that mediation would be the most effective course, although an early neutral evaluation may also be of assistance if the core of the dispute moves away from contract formation to questions of breach. However, ADR should not be started until the nature of the defence case is clear. This should become apparent when Mr Short sends his reply to the letter of claim.  36.   If the case does not settle, proceedings should be commenced in the County Court. I would be pleased to draft particulars of claim at that time if so instructed.  37.   I would be happy to advise further once a reply to the letter before claim has been received, and after the suggested information has been provided by Mr Pemberton. It might well be useful for a conference with Mr Pemberton to be arranged at that stage so that the strength of the case in the light of that information can be reviewed, and for Mr Pemberton to give instructions.  3 Paper Buildings   A. BARRISTER  London  15 October 2021

--- END OF FILE: Pemberton sample opinion on liability.pdf ---


--- START OF FILE: sentencing structure plea in mitigation.docx ---

Plea in Mitigation:

May it please you Honour

Introduction: 

Offence

Subject: 

Guilty credit:

Statutory Plea: Guidelines

Case- which one will help the court. There are number of authorities that are relevant.  Highlight the comparison to fear of partner safety- a degree of pressure; Importantly what were the sentences were.  

Personal Plea:

What would you like me to do then?

For those reason, your honour is minded to, I would invite to suspend that sentence, by sentence you will give him chance, an immediate custody will follow, it can include number of requirement deterring , thinking skills, 

Community sentence

Suspended sentence 

Your Honour, those are my submission Unless I can be of any further assistance. 



What is about: there is no doiubt, the custody threshold has passed, I will seek to pursued to alternative may not to follow that conventional approach, however I invite your honour to: first and the in to personal   

Offence: your hounour there is a guideline

Guidelines (usually)

Culpability (Significant) and Harm (3)

Starting point and range

Aggravating factor- related to offence

Factors reducing seriousness (Lack of previous conviction (nothing relevant) ; one off isolated incident (nothing similar); Remorse (expressed); Pressure (a degree of pressure)

Authorities (lower end sentence)



Offender:

Personal mitigation (job, partner, baby, mortgage)

Conclusion:

Your honour for those reason you are minded , I would invite you to suspended for reasons:

--- END OF FILE: sentencing structure plea in mitigation.docx ---


--- START OF FILE: skeleton C Thakur interim v2.pdf ---

1   ©   City,   University   of   London   202 1  IN   THE   COUNTY   COURT   AT   CENTRAL   LONDON   Claim   No   0YJ3649  BETWEEN:  MR   SAHIL   THAKUR  and  MRS   FELICITY   MITCHELL  Claimant  Defendant  SKELETON   ARGUMENT   ON   BEHALF   OF   THE   CLAIMANT  INTRODUCTION  1.   The   claimant   (‘C’)   seeks   an   interim   payment   in   the   sum   of   £40,000   or   such   other   sum  as   the court   may   think fit   under CPR, r.   25.6.  CORE   DOCUMENTS  2.   C will refer to the following documents:  Application notice , 19/11/2 1  Particulars   of   claim   (‘POC’)   30/09/2 1  Schedule   of   past   loss   and   expense ,   30/09/2 1  Defence   and   counterclaim ,   12/10/2 1  Evidence   on   behalf   of   C  Witness statement of Sahil   Thakur , 19/11/2 1   (‘ST’)  Exhibit   ST1 :   Letter   from   Metland   Police   Authority,   2 7 /11/ 20
2   ©   City,   University   of   London   202 1  Exhibit   ST2 :   Extract   from   The   Highway   Code  Exhibit   ST3 :   Medical   report   of   Mr   Michael   Foley,   F.R.C.S.   18/06/2 1  Exhibit   ST4:   Letter   from   I   V   Investment   Bank   Plc,   2 4 /09/2 1  Evidence   on   behalf   of   the   defendant   (‘D’)  Witness statement of Felicity Mitchell , 26/11/2 1   (‘FM’)  Exhibit FM1 :   Notice   of hearing  Exhibit   FM2 :   Extract   from   The   Highway   Code  BACKGROUND  3.   This   claim   arises   out   of   a   road   traffic   accident   that   occurred   on   3 0 /08/1 9   at  approximately   3.45pm   at   the   junction   of   the   A41   and   Queen’s   Road   in   Hendon.   C   was  travelling   northbound   in   the   middle   lane   of   the   A41.   D   was   travelling   westbound   along  Queen’s Road. At the time of the   accident the traffic lights were not in working order.  The two vehicles, driven respectively by C and D, collided on a yellow boxed area on  the   junction.  4.   C   claims   the   collision   arose   as   a   result   of   D’s   negligence   as   set   out   in   the   POC .   D   was  convicted   of careless   driving;   full   particulars   appear   in   the   POC   para.   9 .  5.   D   denies   liability   and   alleges   negligence   on   the   part   of   C   as   set   out   in   in   the   defence .  6.   As a result of the collision C sustained personal injury (a comminuted fracture to his  right   femur   requiring   surgery),   loss and   damage.  7.   C was unable to return to work for 18 months following the accident and depleted his  savings. He is now in debt and having difficulty in paying the expenses required for  his   travel to work.   ST   para.   21.
3   ©   City,   University   of   London   202 1  THE   PROCEDURAL   REQUIREMENTS   FOR   OBTAINING   AN   INTERIM   PAYMENT  8.   C   has   complied   with   the   requirement   of   giving   14   days’   notice   to   the   D,   as   required   by  CPR   r.   25.6(3)(a).  9.   C   has   satisfied   the   requirements   of   both   CPR   r.   25.6(3)(b)   and   25BPD.2   in   submitting  the   requisite evidence in support of this   application.  THE LEGAL REQUIREMENTS TO BE SATISFIED TO OBTAIN AN INTERIM  PAYMENT  10.  The   court   has   a   discretion   to   make   an   interim   payment   if   it   is   satisfied   that:  a.   C   will   obtain   judgment   at   trial   for   a   substantial   amount   of   money:   CPR,   r.  25.7(1) (c) .  b.   The   sum   sought   by   way   of   interim   payment   is   not   more   than   a   reasonable  proportion   of   the   likely   amount   of   the   final   judgment:   CPR, r.   25.7(4) .  11.  The   court   must   take   into   account   contributory   negligence   and   any   relevant   set   off   or  counterclaim:   CPR,   r.   25.7(5) .  12.  C   contends   that   the   above   conditions   are   satisfied   on   the   balance   of   probabilities   for  the   reasons set out   below.  WILL   C   OBTAIN   JUDGMENT   AT   TRIAL   FOR   A   SUBSTANTIAL   AMOUNT   OF  MONEY?  13.  This   depends   on   (a)   liability   and   (b)   the   likely   quantum   of   the   claim.
4   ©   City,   University   of   London   202 1  Liability  14.   It   is   submitted   that   C   will   succeed   if   the   claim   goes   to   trial   for   the   following   reasons:  a.   C was on the A41 and had   priority over traffic attempting to cross the  junction   from the B551.  b.   C complied with The Highway Code in that he heeded the warning signs,  reduced   his   speed   and   proceeded   with   caution   as   he   attempted   to   cross   the  junction.   ST para.   8.   Highway Code   109   and   170 .  c.   D was convicted of careless driving at Hendon Magistrates’ Court,   exhibit  ST1 . Therefore, pursuant to s.11 of the Civil Evidence Act 1968 there is a  rebuttable   presumption   that   D   was   responsible   for   this   accident.  d.   D   does   not   dispute   that   the   collision   occurred   in   a   yellow   box   junction.  e.   D   was   not   entitled   to   enter   the   yellow   box   junction   unless   her   exit   was   clear.  Highway   Code   174   & 176. Defence   para.   8 .  f.   D   failed   comply   with   Highway   Code   109,159,   170   and   176 .  g.   D’s driving was careless in   that D was not paying attention to the road and  was   looking   over her   left shoulder.   ST para.   9 and   10 .  h.   In   light   of   the   above,   even   if   D’s   current   conviction   is   set   aside,   a   re - hearing  is   still   likely   to   lead to   a conviction   for   careless driving.  Contributory   negligence  15.   C is not likely to have caused or contributed to the accident for the reasons set out  above. If the court were to make a finding of contributory negligence, such a finding  would   be negligible.
5   ©   City,   University   of   London   202 1  Counterclaim  16.   D   is   unlikely   to   be   successful   in   the   counterclaim,   for   the   reasons   set   out   in   paragraph  14   above. The   sum counterclaimed   is less   than £6,000.  Quantum  17.   It   is   submitted   that   C   is   likely   to   obtain   a   substantial   award   of   damages   at   trial.   His  damages   fall into   two categories:  a.   general   damages   for   pain,   suffering   and   loss   of   amenity  b.   special   damages   to   the   date   of   the   hearing.  General   damages   for   pain,   suffering   and   loss   of   amenity  18.   C   suffered   a   comminuted   fracture   of   the   upper   part   of   the   right   femur   and   multiple   soft  tissue   injuries.   The   fracture   was   reduced   under   general   anaesthetic   and   held   in   place  with   a   plate   and   seven   screws.   Full   details   of   the   treatment   and   prognosis   are   set   out  in   the   medical   report   of Mr Foley   dated   18/06/2 1 :   exhibit   ST3 .  19.   On   the   basis   of   the   medical   evidence   available   to   date,   C   submits   that   an   appropriate  award of damages for pain, suffering and loss of amenity is likely to be in the region  of   £17,000. C   relies on the   following authorities:  a.   Judicial   College   Guidelines   15th   Edition,   Leg Injuries,   Bracket (c)   (i):  £15,750 – £24,340  C   submits   that   on   the   basis   of   the   present   medical   evidence,   the   claim   falls  in   the lower   end of this   bracket.  b.   Chillcott v WM Armstrong (Longtown) Ltd   [2007] Lawtel, document number  AM0504458  The court awarded £11,000 for the fractured femur and £3,000 for the cuts  and   scars   to   the   claimant’s   legs   (updated   to   XX at   £XXX.   With   Simmons v  Castle   uplift £XXX   –   students   should   be   updating   this   using   Lawtel ) .
6   ©   City,   University   of   London   202 1  c.   Patterson   v   Basset :   19 - 12 - 00:   AM0502679  Total   award   for   pain,   suffering   and   loss   of   amenity   was   £13,000,   of   which  £8,000   was   attributed   to   the   leg   injury   (updated   to   XX at   £XXX.   With  Simmons   v   Castle   uplift   £XXX   –   this   should   be   updated   using   Lawtel).  20.   C   contends   that   the   case   of   Patterson   is   an   appropriate   baseline   comparator   for   the  following   reasons:  a.   The   type   of   fracture   is   similar.  b.   The   hospital   treatment   for   both   was   by   metal   plate   and   screws.  c.   Both   were   of   a   similar   age.  d.   Both   have   no   significant   lasting   residual   symptoms.  21.   However, it is contended that C’s case lies above   Patterson , falling between the two  cases   cited above, as in   the case   of C:  a.   the   recovery   period   for   C   was   more   protracted   that   in   Patterson  b.   the   metalwork   remains   in   his   leg.  Special   damages  22.   The   current   figure   for   special   damages   is   £111,466.39   (excluding   interest):   Schedule  of past   loss and expense .  NO   MORE   THAN   A   REASONABLE   PROPORTION   OF   THE   LIKELY   TOTAL   AWARD  23.   The   total   value   of   the   claim   is   likely   to   be   in   the   region   of   £130,000.00.   C   submits   that  £40,000   is   not   more   than   a   reasonable   proportion   of   the   likely   total   award   of   damages.
7   ©   City,   University   of   London   202 1  CONCLUSION  24.   C   seeks   an   order   for   an   interim   payment   in   the   sum   of   £40,000.  JENNIFER SMITH  GRAY’S   INN   CHAMBERS  3   December   202 1
8   ©   City,   University   of   London   202 1  Commentary   on   the   claimant’s   skeleton   argument  Heading  This   must   match   the   title   of   the   action   precisely.   Note   in   an   interim   application   you   can   also   make  it clear who are the applicant and respondent as well as claimant and defendant. For ease of  reference   it   is   usually   easier   to   refer   to   the   parties   orally   as   ‘claimant’   or   ‘defendant’   given   that   the  majority   of court documents   will   use   this form   of wording.  General   layout  Your skeleton argument needs to be a ‘user friendly’ document. You must be able to refer the  judge   to   it   quickly   and   easily.   The   judge   should   be   able   to   use,   and   annotate,   the   skeleton   during  the course of   your oral argument. Each paragraph therefore should deal with a separate issue.  Each paragraph should be numbered consecutively. Where a paragraph contains a number of  subparagraphs,   then   each   subparagraph   should   have   a   different   numbering   system   from   the   main  paragraph,   and   subparagraphs   should   also   be   numbered   consecutively   (for   example,   (a),   (b),   (c)).  By convention, subparagraphs are generally (a), (b) and so on and sub - subparagraphs are  numbered (i), (ii), (iii), (iv) and so on. Avoid the use of   bullet points in your skeleton argument (it  will   almost   certainly   irritate   a   judge   if   you   try   to   refer   them   to   para.   8,   bullet   point   7,   and   they then  have to laboriously count down the bullet points to reach point 7!). Try and keep the paragraphs  reasonabl y   short.   Also remember   to sign and   date   the skeleton   argument   at the   end.  Para.   1:   Introduction  In the opening paragraph of any skeleton argument, if acting for the applicant, you need to state  the nature of the application. You should also   identify the relevant Civil Procedure Rules under  which   the application   is   made.  Para.   2:   Core   documents  You then need to identify the evidence that you rely on in support of the application. However,  you should not only identify the documents that you re ly on. To assist the judge with any  advance reading they may wish to do, you should also identify any evidence that the other party  has filed in opposition to the application. During the course of your oral submission, you can  simply tell the judge that th e documents in support of the application are listed at paragraph 2 of  your skeleton. You should also check that the judge has copies of, and has had the opportunity  to read, these documents. You will not usually need to take the judge through the document s at  this stage, unless the judge indicates that you should.   Note that including a list of core  documents is to some extent a matter of style   –   many barristers will not include this  section in a skeleton, but for the purposes of consistency of teaching and   the  assessment   we recommend you do include   such a heading.  Note:   a chronology may sometimes be appended to the skeleton argument where there are a  series of key dates related to the application. A chronology is not compulsory, but it is desirable  in   comp lex   applications.  Background  Having identified the nature of the application and the evidence relied on, it would probably be  helpful to the court if you put the application in context. That involves, very briefly, setting out the  basic   facts   of   the   case   –   here,   the   nature   of   the   relationship   between   the   claimant   and   the
9   ©   City,   University   of   London   202 1  defendant, the fact that the accident occurred and how it happened. I would aim to keep this  paragraph   as factual and uncontentious as possible.  You then need to identi fy the claimant’s case in relation to the accident   –   that is, that it occurred  as a result of the defendant’s negligence. In the skeleton argument, there is no need to set out  precisely how the claimant alleges the defendant was negligent. You can simply r efer the judge  to   the   relevant   paragraph   of   the   particulars   of   claim   that   details   the   allegations   of   negligence.  For completeness, and so that the court can appreciate the issues between the parties, you  should also identify the defendant’s case   –   here a denial of negligence and an allegation of  contributory   negligence.   Once   again,   there   is   no   need   to   go   into   any   detail   here;   you   can   refer   the  court to the statements of case (here the defence) for details of the allegation. You can then  amplify   this   during your   oral argument.  Procedural   issues  You should check that procedural matters have been complied with such as notice periods,  requirements to provide written evidence, etc. You will not want to spend a long time in your oral  advocacy   taking   the   judge   through   these   matters.   Most   often   this   issue   should   be   uncontentious,  and   a   skeleton   can   be   neatly   used   to   very   succinctly   affirm   that   the   correct   procedural  requirements   (usually under a PD) have   been   met.  Legal   requirements   to   be   satisf ied  You   have   now   told   the   judge   what   you   want,   identified   the   evidence   that   relates   to   the   application  and identified the relevant general background facts and issues. At some point, you will have to  identify, and address, the issues that the court   must take into account or determine in the  application itself. This will obviously vary depending on the nature of the application you make.  However, as a general guide, always work out what you need to prove (or to put it another way,  what   the court   must   take into   account) in order   to make   the   order you   want.  Here the basis on which the court can award an interim payment is set out in the CPR   –   so the  rules   which   are   relevant   to   this   application   are   set   out.   During   the   course   of   your   oral   submission,  you should have   The White Book   open in front of you, and you should refer the judge to the  relevant pages/passages using this text. In the remainder of the skeleton, these issues are  addressed   in   turn,   and   the applicant’s   key   arguments   are   iden tified in   relation   to   them.  Claimant   would   obtain   judgment   for   a   substantial   sum  These   paragraphs   really   address   the   first   big   issue   the   court   has   to   determine   –   namely   that   if   the  claim   went   to   trial,   the   claimant   would   obtain   judgment   for   a   substantial   amount   of   money   ( CPR  r. 25.7(1)(c) ). Whether the claimant would obtain judgment at trial depends on liability; whether  that judgment would be ‘substantial’ depends on quantum. The two sub - issues of liability and  quantum   therefore   need   to   be   addressed   separately.   The   claimant   will   only   be   entitled   to   damages  if he succeeds in establishing liability. Liability   must   therefore be addressed before the issue of  quantum. Contributory negligence is also dealt with here because a finding of contributo ry  negligence is dependent on matters relating to liability. It is for this reason that contributory  negligence   is dealt with   after liability   and before quantum.  Note   that   the   claimant’s   submissions   are   supported   by   clear   evidence   to   the   relevant   paragrap hs  in   the   evidence   that   relate   to   each   argument.   Always   identify   the   relevant   paragraph   of   the   witness  statement   on   which   you   rely   in   support   of   each   submission   you   make.   This   paragraph   identifies
10   ©   City,   University   of   London   202 1  the   reasons   why   the   claimant   claims   that   the   defendant   is   liable   for   the   accident.   These   will   have  to be ‘fleshed out’ during the course of the oral submission, and the judge taken to the particular  words   which support each submission you   make.  No detail is set out in relation to contributory ne gligence. This section will require amplification  during   the course of submissions.  Quantum  There are two heads of loss in this case: personal injury and special damages. These are  identified at the outset of this section. The skeleton briefly identifies   the injury and the fact that  treatment   and   prognosis   is   set   out   in   Mr   Foley’s   report.   Full   details   of   the   treatment   and   prognosis  should   not be   set out   in the   skeleton;   this can   be   expanded   on in   oral argument.  A   short   section   sets   out   your   opinion   on   the   likely   level   of   damages   for   pain,   suffering   and   loss   of  amenity and identifies the authorities you rely on in support of your opinion. During the course of  your oral argument, you will have to take the judge to these authorities and show them how they  support   the   level of   damages you   submit would   be appropriate   for this   head of   loss.  A   new   paragraph   sets   out   special   damages.  A   reasonable   proportion  This paragraph deals with the second big issue: whether the interim payment sought is no more  than a   reasonable proportion of the likely final award. Again, no detail is given here, but this can  and   should   be amplified during   the course of your   submission.  Conclusion  Make sure that your skeleton argument contains a conclusion. This will bring it to a nea t end.  Here   the   conclusion   simply   summarises   the   order   that   the   court   is   invited   to   make.   Also   sign   and  date   your skeleton argument,   and include your professional   address.

--- END OF FILE: skeleton C Thakur interim v2.pdf ---


--- START OF FILE: Thakur bundle interim.pdf ---

1   ©   City,   University   of   London   202 1  IN THE COUNTY COURT AT CENTRAL LONDON   Claim No 0YJ3649  BETWEEN:  MR SAHIL THAKUR  and  MRS FELICITY MITCHELL  Claimant  Defendant  APPLICATION BUNDLE  Application notice   pp.2–3  Particulars of claim   pp.4–6  Schedule of past and future loss and expense   pp.7–9 Defence and counterclaim   pp.10–12  Claimant’s witness statement   pp.13–16  Claimant’s exhibits   pp.17–23  Defendant’s witness statement   pp.24–26  Defendant’s exhibits   pp.27–28  Claimant’s statement of costs   (not included for the purposes of this exercise) Defendant’s statement of costs   (not included for the purposes of this exercise)
2   ©   City,   University   of   London   202 1  19 NOVEMBER 2021  0YJ3649
3   ©   City,   University   of   London   202 1  Sahil   Thakur   19 NOVEMBER
4   ©   City,   University   of   London   202 1  IN THE COUNTY COURT AT CENTRAL LONDON   Claim No. 0YJ3649  BETWEEN:  MR SAHIL THAKUR   Claimant  and  MRS FELICITY MITCHELL   Defendant  PARTICULARS OF CLAIM  1.   The Claimant was, at all material times, the owner and driver of a Porsche Boxster sport edition motor vehicle registration number THAKUR 1 (‘the claimant’s Porsche’). The Defendant was at all material times the owner and driver of a Range Rover Vogue motor vehicle registration number FLICK 33 (‘the defendant’s Range Rover’).  2.   On 30 August 2019, at about 3.45pm, the Claimant was driving his vehicle north along the A41 in the middle lane near the junction with Queen’s Road (B551) and Vivian Avenue in Hendon, London (‘the junction’), and the Defendant was driving her vehicle along Queen’s Road in a westerly direction towards the junction.  3.   At all material times:  (a)   The traffic lights controlling the junction were out of order.  (b)   Warning signs stating the traffic lights were out of order were in place at the approaches to the junction.  4.   The Claimant entered the junction at about 20 mph. As he did so, traffic in the outside lane of the A41 was stationary, but the middle lane ahead of the Claimant’s Porsche was clear.  5.   As the Defendant was crossing the junction she was looking over her left shoulder and not concentrating on the road ahead or other vehicles, and in particular the Claimant’s Porsche, seeking to cross the junction.  6.   Without warning, the Defendant’s Range Rover emerged from a gap in the vehicles in the outside lane of the A41, and proceeded across the path of the Claimant’s Porsche, giving the Claimant no time to avoid a collision with the Defendant’s Range Rover.  7.   The collision referred to in paragraph 6 above, occurred in the yellow cross-hatched box in the junction where the middle lane of the northbound carriageway of the A41 is crossed by the westbound carriageway leading from Queen’s Road   towards Vivian Avenue.
5   ©   City,   University   of   London   202 1  8.   The collision was caused by the negligence of the Defendant.  PARTICULARS OF NEGLIGENCE  The Defendant was negligent in that she:  (a)   failed to keep any or any adequate lookout  (b)   failed to observe or heed the presence of the claimant’s Porsche  (c)   failed to heed the horn sounded by another driver, Ulrike Schwartz, to warn her of the impending danger of crossing  (d)   drove   through   a   gap   in   the   traffic   in   the   outside   lane   of   the   northbound carriageway of the A41 when she could not see, adequately or at all, traffic in the middle lane of the northbound carriageway of the A41  (e)   drove   through   a   gap   in   the   traffic   in   the   outside   lane   of   the   northbound carriageway of the A41 when her approach could not be seen by traffic in the middle lane of the northbound carriageway of the A41  (f)   continued   driving   across   the junction   when   she   was   looking   over   her   left shoulder  (g)   failed to stop, steer, manage or control her Range Rover in such a way as to avoid a collision  (h)   failed to apply the brakes of her Range Rover in sufficient time or at all  (i)   drove into the claimant’s Porsche when, by the exercise of reasonable driving skill and care, such a collision could have been avoided.  9.   Further, on 6 December 2019 at the Hendon Magistrates’ Court, the Defendant was convicted of the offence of careless driving contrary to s.3 of the Road Traffic Act 1988 in respect of her driving on the occasion of this collision. The Claimant contends this conviction is relevant to the issue of negligence in this claim and intends to adduce evidence of the Defendant’s conviction at the trial under s.11 of the Civil Evidence Act 1968.  10.   By reason of the negligence of the Defendant, the Claimant has suffered pain, injury, loss and damage.  PARTICULARS OF INJURY  The Claimant, who was born on 4 July 1990 and was aged 29 years at the time of the collision, sustained the following injuries:  (a)   fractured right femur  (b)   blow to the head and a period of unconsciousness on the day of the collision  (c)   lacerations and bruising to his face, neck and right hand.  The Claimant received emergency care and treatment at The Royal Free Hospital, Pond Street, London. The Claimant remained in hospital for three weeks. A metal plate and seven pins were inserted into his leg, and it was placed in a rigid cast. This cast was changed once, and then replaced with a cast brace and hip support. The Claimant was unable to return to work as a hedge fund investment adviser for  18 months. Full particulars of the injuries suffered and treatment received are contained in the medical report of Mr Michael Foley, Consultant Orthopaedic
6   ©   City,   University   of   London   202 1  Surgeon, dated 18 June 2021, a copy of which is served with these particulars of claim.  PARTICULARS OF SPECIAL DAMAGES  Further, the Claimant claims special damages as set out in the Schedule of past and future loss and expense served with these particulars of claim.  11.   Further the Claimant claims interest under s.69 of the County Courts Act 1984 on the amounts found to be due to the Claimant at such rates and for such periods as the court thinks fit.  AND the Claimant claims:  (i)   damages  (ii)   interest pursuant to s.69 of the County Courts Act 1984.  STATEMENT OF TRUTH  I believe that the facts stated in these particulars of claim are true. I understand that proceedings for contempt of court may be brought against anyone who makes, or causes to be made, a false statement in a document to be verified by a statement of truth without an honest belief in its truth.  SIGNED:   Sahil Thakur  DATE: 30 September 2021  King & Bateman Solicitors LLP 2 Exmouth Market  Clerkenwell London EC1 8BZ  Tel: +44 0207 893 2345
7   ©   City,   University   of   London   202 1  IN THE COUNTY COURT AT CENTRAL LONDON   Claim No 0YJ3649  BETWEEN:  MR SAHIL THAKUR   Claimant  and  MRS FELICITY MITCHELL   Defendant  SCHEDULE OF PAST AND FUTURE LOSS AND EXPENSE  Past losses  1.   The Claimant’s car, a Porsche Boxster sport edition registration number THAKUR 1, was damaged beyond repair.  Value of the Claimant’s vehicle:   £35,500  2.   Loss of earnings from 01.09.19–01.04.21 inclusive  The Claimant was employed by I V Investment Bank plc as a hedge fund investment adviser earning in the following years ending 31 March the following amounts:  1 April 2019   £60,500 (net)  1 April 2020   £65,700 (net)  1 April 2021   £70,900 (net)  He received full pay for the first six months after his injury and then six months at half his normal pay. From 01/09/19 he received only statutory sick pay until he returned to work. He returned to work on 1 April 2021 and thereafter received his full salary.  Period   Expected salary   Received salary   Net loss  01.09.19–  31.03.20  £28,287.60   £28,287.60   nil  01.04.20 – 31.03.21  £65,700.00   £16,425.00   £49,275.00  Net loss of earnings:   £49,275.00
8   ©   City,   University   of   London   202 1  3.   The Claimant was unable to recover his car insurance excess following his claim on his motor insurance as a result of the collision.  Insurance excess   £500.00  4.   The following items were in the Claimant’s car at the time of the accident and were damaged as a result of the collision:  (a)   Car satellite navigation system   £450  (b)   iPhone   £525  (c)   iPad   £599  Total:   £1,574.00  5.   Clothing damaged beyond repair:  Sunglasses   £500.00  Jacket   £300.00  Trousers   £70.00  Shirt   £30.00  Total:   £900.00  6.   Return air fares from Luton to Milan (business class) for the Claimant and Miss Susan Harris for the weekend of the collision, which the claimant and Miss Harris could not use  Airfares:   £1,064.00  7.   Medication  Prescription painkillers, 20 at £8.80 each   £176.00 Over the counter medication, 100 at £0.99 each   £9.90  Total:   £185.90  8.   Parking at Royal Free Hospital (mother)  Full-day parking fees: 21 days x £12   £252.00 Parking fees for outpatient appointments, 6 x £4.50 £27.00  Total   £279.00  9.   Care provided by the Claimant’s mother. On his discharge from hospital the Claimant’s mother provided 10 hours of care and attention every day for four weeks to assist him in coping with his injuries. The Claimant seeks damages for care and assistance at the relevant commercial rate for nursing care, namely [£15] per hour, discounted by 33% (producing an effective hourly rate of £10) to take account of the fact that the care was provided by a member of his family.  Total   280 hours x £10 per hour   £2,800.00  10.   House-keeping and cleaning services of Farhana Thakur. From the end of the fourth week after his discharge from hospital, the Claimant continued to need help in coping with his injuries for a further 76 weeks. Farhana Thakur assisted the Claimant by doing his cooking, washing, ironing and cleaning, and also DIY work   at   his   flat,   taking   messages   and   organising   his   appointments.   These services amount to four hours per day.
9   ©   City,   University   of   London   202 1  76 weeks at £250 per week (based on four hours per day at the rate of £8.93 per hour)  Total   £19,000  Total past losses   £111,077.90  Interest  a)   On general damages at 2% pa from the date of service of the Claim form.  b)   On past losses at the appropriate special account rates from the dates when the Claimant’s past losses were incurred.  STATEMENT OF TRUTH  I believe that the facts stated in this schedule of past and future loss   and expense are true. I understand that proceedings for contempt of court may be brought against anyone who makes, or causes to be made, a false statement in a document to be verified by a statement of truth without an honest belief in its truth.  SIGNED:   Sahil Thakur  DATE: 30 September 2021  King & Bateman Solicitors LLP 2 Exmouth Market  Clerkenwell London EC1 8BZ
10   ©   City,   University   of   London   202 1  IN THE COUNTY COURT AT CENTRAL LONDON   Claim No 9YJ3649  BETWEEN:  MR SAHIL THAKUR   Claimant  and  MRS FELICITY MITCHELL   Defendant  DEFENCE AND COUNTERCLAIM  DEFENCE  1.   Paragraphs 1 and 2 of the Particulars of Claim are admitted.  2.   Paragraph 3 of the Particulars of Claim is admitted, except that the Claimant is required to prove that warning signs stating the traffic lights were out of order were in place at all approaches to the junction.  3.   Paragraph 4 of the Particulars of Claim is admitted, except the Claimant is required to prove that the Claimant’s Porsche was travelling at about 20 mph when it entered the box junction.  4.   Paragraphs 5 and 6 of the Particulars of Claim are denied. At   the time of the collision,   the   traffic   lights   at   the   junction   of   Queen’s   Road   and   the   A41   were temporarily out of order. The Defendant crossed the southbound carriageway of the A41 heading in a westerly direction towards Vivian Avenue. She stopped her vehicle in the middle of the box junction and waited until it was safe to cross the northbound carriageway. The Defendant began to cross the northbound junction at no more than 20 mph. As she crossed the junction, the Defendant was paying proper attention to traffic on and approaching the junction.  5.   The Claimant failed to give way to the Defendant’s Range Rover which was already on the junction before the Claimant’s Porsche entered the box junction. The claimant drove his vehicle into the Defendant’s Range Rover affording her no opportunity to take evasive action to avoid the collision.  6.   Paragraph 7 of the Particulars of Claim is admitted.  7.   Except that it is admitted that a collision occurred between the Claimant’s Range Rover   and   the   defendant’s   Porsche   in   the   box   junction,   paragraph   8   of   the Particulars of Claim is denied:
11   ©   City,   University   of   London   202 1  (a)   for the reasons set out in paragraphs 5 and 6 above  (b)   because the Defendant proceeded with due caution through the traffic in the offside lane of the northbound carriageway of the A41  (c)   because the Defendant’s Range Rover was taller than the cars in the offside lane of the northbound carriageway and could be seen by other motorists, and in particular the Claimant, driving northbound on the A41 in the middle lane.  8.   Further or alternatively, the collision was caused or contributed to by the negligence of the Claimant.  PARTICULARS OF NEGLIGENCE  The Claimant was negligent in that he:  (a)   failed to approach the junction with the caution required in approaching a busy junction at a time when the traffic lights controlling the junction were out of order  (b)   failed to keep any or any adequate lookout  (c)   undertook stationary traffic in the outside lane while travelling in the middle lane  (d)   failed to pay any attention to other road users, and in particular the defendant’s Range Rover, using the junction ahead of him  (e)   drove at a speed that was inappropriately fast  (f)   failed to check for traffic crossing from Queen’s Road towards Vivian Avenue before entering the box junction  (g)   failed to give way to the Defendant’s Range Rover  (h)   failed to sound his horn or otherwise make the defendant aware of his presence on the road  (i)   failed to stop, steer, manage or control his vehicle in such a way as to avoid a collision  (j)   failed to apply the brakes of his vehicle sufficiently, in time or at all  (k)   drove into the Defendant’s Range Rover when, by the exercise of reasonable skill and care, such a collision could have been avoided.  9.   It is admitted that the Defendant was convicted of careless driving as asserted in paragraph 9 of the particulars of claim. It is denied that this conviction is relevant to the question of liability in the Claimant’s claim. The conviction was wrongly obtained as it was made in the Defendant’s   absence and without her knowledge, and is subject to a current application under section 142 Magistrates' Courts Act 1980 before the Hendon Magistrates' Court to set it aside.  10.   The Claimant is required to prove the existence, nature and extent of the alleged pain, injury, loss and damage as set out in paragraph 10 of the Particulars of Claim and the Schedule of past and future loss and expense. It is denied that any loss or damage that may be proved was caused by the negligence of the Defendant for the reasons set out in paragraphs 3 to 9 of this Defence above.
12   ©   City,   University   of   London   202 1  COUNTERCLAIM  11.   The Defendant repeats paragraphs 1 to 10 of the Defence above.  12.   By reason of the negligence of the Claimant, the Defendant, who was born on 23 April 1977 and was aged 42 years and four months at the date of the accident, has sustained loss and damage.  PARTICULARS OF LOSS AND DAMAGE  (a)   Cost of repairs to the Defendant’s Range Rover  (b)   Loss of use of the Defendant’s Range Rover for two weeks  £4,913.27  at £300 per week   £   600.00  Total:   £5,513.27  (c)   Alternatively (a) above and mini-cab fares while the Defendant’s Range Rover was being repaired   £ 400.00  Total   £5,313.27  13.   Further, the Defendant is entitled to and claims interest on the sum of £5,513.27 at the rate of 8% per annum pursuant to the County Courts Act 1984, s.69, from 1 September 2019 to 12 October 2021 amounting to £932.94 and continuing at the daily rate of £1.21.  AND the Defendant counterclaims:  (a)   Damages amounting to £5,513.27  (b)   Interest pursuant to the County Courts Act 1984, s.69.  BESSIE TOFFER  STATEMENT OF TRUTH  The Defendant believes that the facts stated in this Defence and Counterclaim are true. I understand that proceedings for contempt of court may be brought against anyone who makes, or causes to be made, a false statement in a document to be verified by a statement of truth without an honest belief in its truth.  Signed:  L.   Snowden  L. Snowden, Defendant’s solicitor  12 October 2021  Snowden & Naylor LLP, Old Court Square, London EC1B 4DU
13   ©   City,   University   of   London   202 1  Made on behalf of the Claimant  Witness: S Thakur First witness statement Exhibits: ST1 to ST5 Dated 19.11.2021  IN THE COUNTY COURT AT CENTRAL LONDON   Claim No 0YJ3649  BETWEEN:  MR SAHIL THAKUR  and  MRS FELICITY MITCHELL  Claimant  Defendant  WITNESS STATEMENT OF SAHIL THAKUR  1.   I am Sahil Thakur, the Claimant in these proceedings. I am employed as a hedge fund investment advisor at I V Investment Bank plc, Atlas Tower, London Wall, London EC1Y 9PR. I live at Flat 4, The Point, Clerkenwell, London EC1R 4SL. I make this witness statement in support of my application for an interim payment in the sum of £40,000 against the Defendant. The matters set out below are within my own knowledge and are true except insofar as it appears from the context that information has been provided to me by others, in which case that information is true to best of my knowledge and belief.  Circumstances giving rise to the accident  2.   On 30 August 2019, I was involved in a road traffic accident. I was born on 4 July 1990 and so was 29 years old at the time of the accident. I have held a full driving license since 2008. I have never been involved in a road traffic accident prior to this one.  3.   The vehicle I was driving on the day of the accident was a Porsche Boxster, sport edition, registration number THAKUR 1, which I purchased brand new for £40,000 four months before the accident. I bought the car after a good financial year and I used it for both work and social occasions. I had driven it for about 5,000 miles and I was therefore familiar with the brakes and controls on the vehicle.  4.   On the day of the accident I was on my way to Luton Airport. I had planned a weekend in Milan with my girlfriend, Susan Harris. I had arranged to meet Susan at Luton Airport. I was heading north along the A41 intending to join the M1 motorway.
14   ©   City,   University   of   London   202 1  5.   The traffic was congested as usual for a Friday afternoon in London, but visibility was good and the weather was fine and dry. The travel flow was stop and start, but occasionally gaps in the traffic developed and the speed of cars got up to about 30 mph.  6.   At Hendon, the A41 is quite wide, there are three lanes heading north and the speed limit is 40 mph. I was in the nearside lane. The junction with Queen’s Road and Vivian Avenue is normally controlled by traffic lights. Well before I approached the junction, I noticed the traffic lights were out of order. There were warning signs indicating the lights were not working. Beyond the traffic lights at the junction, I saw two stationary buses. The buses were in a parking bay to the left of my lane but part of one bus was slightly obstructing the nearside lane. The buses were setting down and picking up passengers.  7.   I was travelling at about 20–25 mph as I approached the junction. I decided to move into the middle lane. I checked my mirrors and saw a gap in the traffic behind me. I indicated and moved into the middle lane. As I moved into the middle lane I would say I was at least 12 car lengths away from the junction. As I was moving into the middle lane, two young men, aged about 17 years old, walked out into the road; moving from the nearside to the offside of my car. The two men were about eight car lengths away from me, but did not seem to be moving very fast, so I flashed my lights and they ran across the road.  8.   Traffic   in   the   offside   lane   was   very   congested   and   suddenly   stopped.   As   I approached the junction, I was moving faster than the traffic to my right. I saw a red VW Golf car in the offside lane, at the front of the stationary cars. Suddenly, from nowhere, a silver Range Rover appeared in front of my car and proceeded to drive in front of me. I was travelling at no more than about 20 mph because I had reduced my speed as I approached the junction.  9.   The Range Rover car driver seemed to be looking over her left shoulder. Just before impact she turned her head to the front of her car and was looking ahead towards Vivian Avenue; I don’t think she saw my car. I could not stop as the Range Rover was just too close. The front of my car hit the front passenger door of the Range Rover and immediately stopped because of the force of the impact. I heard a loud bang and then a second bang as the car’s airbag was activated. I must have hit my head on impact as everything went dark and I have a vague recollection of hearing voices outside my car.  10.   The accident was caused by the Range Rover driver’s dangerous driving; she just drove into the northbound carriageway without checking that it was clear.  Grounds for seeking an interim payment against the defendant  11.   I believe that the Defendant is likely to be liable for my accident as alleged in the particulars of claim.  12.   The defendant has filed a Defence and counterclaim. I believe that despite her pleaded Defence, the Defendant is likely to be held liable for the accident. I refer to the copy of a letter from the Metland Police Authority which is marked as Exhibit  ‘ST 1’   which shows that the Defendant was charged and convicted of an offence of
15   ©   City,   University   of   London   202 1  careless driving on this occasion. I also refer to ‘ ST 2’ ; extracts from the Highway Code. The facts of this case clearly demonstrate that the Defendant breached several of the rules in the code.  13.   I also do not accept that I have been in any way contributorily negligent. I drove with all reasonable caution, heeding the warning signs which the Defendant did not even see. I was on the major road and she was on the minor road. She was duty- bound to stop as I had the right of way.  14.   I am advised by my solicitors and believe that if this claim goes to trial, I will recover damages for a substantial sum against the Defendant.  My injuries  15.   As a result of the accident, I suffered a comminuted fracture of my right femur, which had to be fixed with seven nails and a metal plate. I also suffered various cuts and bruises. Full details of my injuries are set out in Mr Foley’s report dated 18 June 2021, which was served with the Particulars of Claim and is exhibited here as exhibit ‘ ST 3 ’.  16.   Before the accident, I was an avid gym-goer, and weight-trained almost every day. I have only just been able to resume my pre-accident level of training. I am a keen sportsman, and was unable to play with my local rugby or cricket teams for 18 months. I am also a fair-weather golfer, which again I have only just been able to recommence because of the twisting involved in swinging a golf club.  17.   I am advised by my solicitors and believe that an appropriate award of damages for pain, suffering and loss of amenity would be in the region of £16,000.  Past loss  18.   It took me 18 months to fully recover from my injuries, and I was unable to return to work until April 2021. For the six months after the accident occurred, I received full pay. However, thereafter for a period of six months I received only half pay, and from September 2020 I received statutory sick pay only. My employers confirm my losses in exhibit ‘ ST 4 ’. I am told by my solicitors and believe that statutory sick pay is not a recoverable benefit, and therefore I do not include a certificate of recoverable benefits.  19.   I was unable to look after myself during the first four weeks after my discharge from hospital, and so my mother came to care for me. After that my cousin, Farhana Thakur assisted me around the house, as I spent a long time being unable to do anything like even basic housework for myself.  20.   I refer to my Schedule of past and future loss and expense which was served with the Particulars of Claim, which sets out my financial losses. As appears from that Schedule, my past losses amount to a sum just over £111,000.
16   ©   City,   University   of   London   202 1  Purpose of this application  21.   I wish to apply for an interim payment because my savings have been exhausted throughout   the   period   of   my   absence   from   work.   Just   prior   to the   accident, contractors were due to refurbish my kitchen, at a cost of £25,000. All of the units and appliances were completely bespoke, and were not suitable for use in anyone else’s flat. We delayed the start of the refurbishment until I was able to at least move around the flat unaided, but works were completed in September 2019. The contractors have rendered their invoice to me, but by September 2019 I had eaten up most of my savings, as I was only being paid statutory sick pay. They have been quite understanding up until now, but it is now a year since they completed the work and they are starting to threaten to take me to court if I don’t pay them soon. I have not been able to pay them anything yet. I am also finding it hard to pay   the   daily   expenses   involved   in   going   back   and   forth   to   Manchester, Birmingham and Leeds, which is a requirement of my job. I would also like £5,000 to take a much-needed holiday.  22.   I would therefore ask this court to order an interim payment against the Defendant in the sum of £40,000, or such other sum as the court sees fit.  STATEMENT OF TRUTH  I believe that the facts stated in this witness statement are true. I understand that proceedings for contempt of court may be brought against anyone who makes, or causes to be made, a false statement in a document to be verified by a statement of truth without an honest belief in its truth.  Sahil Thakur  Dated 19.11.2021
17   ©   City,   University   of   London   202 1  EXHIBIT ST 1  Metland Police Authority  King & Bateman Solicitors LLP 2 Exmouth Market  Clerkenwell London, EC1 8BZ  27 November 2020  Dear Ms Pleat,  Police Collision Report  Accident: 30/08/2019 – A41 – nr junction with Vivian Avenue, Hendon, London Your client: Mr Sahil Thakur  Thank you for cheque in respect of the above report.  Our records confirm that Mrs Mitchell was convicted in her absence of Careless Driving, contrary   to   section   3   Road   Traffic   Act   1988,   at   Hendon   Magistrates’   Court   on   6 December 2019. For details of the conviction we suggest you write to the court.  We have no further information regarding Mrs Mitchell’s current address.  Yours sincerely  Stella Greenwood  Stella Greenwood Senior Administrator Metland Police Authority
18   ©   City,   University   of   London   202 1  EXHIBIT ST 2  Extracts from The Highway Code  104  You should also:  •   Watch out for signals given by other road users and proceed only when you are satisfied that it is safe.  109  Traffic light signals and traffic signs. You MUST obey all traffic light signals (see 'Light signals controlling traffic') and traffic signs giving orders, including temporary signals and signs (see ‘Traffic signs'). Make sure you know, understand and act on all other traffic and information signs and road markings (see 'Road markings' and 'Vehicle markings').  159  Before moving off you should:  •   Use all mirrors to check the road is clear.  •   Look round to check the blind spots (the areas you are unable to see in the mirrors).  •   Signal if necessary before moving out.  •   Look round for a final check.  Move off only when it is safe to do so.  170  Take extra care at junctions.  174  Box junctions. These have criss-cross yellow lines painted on the road (see 'Road markings'). You MUST NOT enter the box until your exit road or lane is clear. However, you may enter the box and wait when you want to turn right, and are only stopped from doing so by oncoming traffic, or by other vehicles waiting to turn right. At signalled roundabouts you MUST NOT enter the box unless you can cross over it completely without stopping.  176  You MUST NOT move forward over the white line when the red light is showing. Only go forward when the traffic lights are green if there is room for you to clear the junction safely or you are taking up a position to turn right. If the traffic lights are not working, treat the situation as you would an unmarked junction and proceed with great care.
19   ©   City,   University   of   London   202 1  EXHIBIT ST 3  Mr Michael Foley  B.Sc. (Hons), M.B.B.S., F.R.C.S. (Roth )  490 Hurley Street  London W1N 1AE  Tel: 0207-580-0000  To: The COUNTY COURT  Instructions : I was instructed by the claimant’s solicitors to examine Mr Sahil Thakur and to prepare a medical report commenting on the injuries he received on 1 September 2017, with particular reference to his condition at the date of examination and the prognosis.  Qualifications   and   experience :   A   résumé   of   my   qualifications   and experience   is appended to this report. (Not included for the purposes of this exercise).  MEDICAL REPORT  NAME:   Mr Sahil Thakur  ADDRESS:   Flat 4, The Point, Clerkenwell, London EC1R 4SL  DATE OF BIRTH:   4 July 1990  STATUS:   Single  DATE OF INJURY:   30 August 2019  OCCUPATION AT TIME OF INJURY:   Hedge Fund Investment Advisor DATE OF REPORT:   18 June 2021  DOCUMENTS CONSULTED:   Royal Free Hospital notes, X-rays, CT scan and  MRI scans.  Personal details : Mr Sahil Thakur is a 30-year-old single man with no dependants who tells me that he resides at the above address alone. His hobbies, both before and after the accident, are football, cricket and rugby. He is a member of a number of local teams for all of these sports. He is right-handed. He reports that he is a member of the Laboratory International gym and enjoys weight-lifting.
20   ©   City,   University   of   London   202 1  Past medical history : There is little of relevance to the present injury. He has been a normal fit adult with no previous problems with his health.  Details of the accident : As related by Mr Sahil Thakur are as follows: on 30 August 2019 he was driving his car along the A41 heading north in the vicinity of Vivian Avenue, Hendon, London when he was suddenly struck by another car being driven across the junction towards Vivian Avenue. He tells me the other driver was in a Range Rover and he was driving his sports car. He estimates he was driving about 20 mph. He was unable to avoid a collision and his car hit the front passenger door of the Range Rover. The force of the impact immediately stopped his car in the middle of the junction. Mr Thakur reports he struck his head on the inside of the car as he was restrained by his seat belt and airbag. His nose began to bleed and he felt dizzy and shocked immediately after the accident. He recalls feeling unwell and then appears to have lost consciousness. He was taken to the accident and emergency department of the Royal Free Hospital in Belsize Park, London.  Details of medical treatment : The medical records reveal that Mr Thakur was put into a neck brace at the scene of the accident. He was unconscious on arrival at hospital. A CT scan was taken of his head, and an MRI scan was taken of his abdomen to ascertain whether Mr Thakur had sustained any significant internal injury. Both scans presented normally. X-rays were taken of Mr Thakur’s right shoulder, both femurs and his cervical spine.  According   to   the   medical   records,   Mr   Thakur   spontaneously   began   to   regain consciousness 20 minutes post-admission, and over the following 24 hours, he regained full   consciousness.   No   significant   head   injury   was   sustained.   X-rays   revealed   a comminuted fracture of the upper right femur. There was associated soft tissue damage. He also had significant lacerations and bruising to his face, neck and right hand.  Mr Thakur was initially treated with analgesics and the wounds were cleaned. The fracture required surgery, and Mr Thakur was placed under general anaesthetic and the fracture of the right femur was reduced and held in place with a plate and seven screws. It was placed in a rigid cast. Post-operative recovery was normal.  Mr Thakur reported feeling very tired and bruised for the first two weeks after the accident. Nevertheless, from an orthopaedic point of view, his recovery was uneventful and he was discharged from hospital after three weeks with crutches. Mr Thakur was advised not to walk on his right leg for a further five weeks after which he was advised to mobilise gradually with crutches. The cast was changed at an outpatient appointment five weeks after discharge as an inpatient, and removed and replaced with a cast brace allowing knee movement together with a pelvic support to allow hip movement 13 weeks after discharge as an inpatient.  Mr Thakur managed his pain by taking Tramadol for two weeks, co-codamol for four months, and then paracetamol three times a day for the next two months. He then gradually reduced his pain medication. His mother stayed at his flat for four weeks after his discharge from hospital to look after him, and he then had a cleaner/ housekeeper.  Mr Thakur’s right leg healed without complication and on outpatients’ review six months after the accident, the cast brace was removed. He was advised to be partial weight-
21   ©   City,   University   of   London   202 1  bearing for two weeks, followed by full weight-bearing. Muscle wastage is a problem with this type of injury, and he had seven physiotherapy appointments after the cast brace and pelvic support were removed. Thereafter, he was reviewed in outpatients on three subsequent occasions, but was finally discharged from outpatient care on 8 March 2019.  Present condition : Mr Thakur has made a full recovery from his orthopaedic injuries.  He was prevented from participating in sporting activities for 18 months but has now returned to his pre-accident activities without any loss of ability. He tells me that he returned to work in April 2021. He initially returned to reduced working hours and has gradually increased his hours of work. He reports that he still has occasional ‘twinges’ on the inner side of his right knee, particularly when he has been driving for a lengthy period (which he tells me is part of his job). He complains of a ‘clicking’ sensation underneath his right kneecap when he bends and straightens his knee normally, so he tends to bend his knee in an awkward way. He continues to experience some discomfort in the scar over the outer side of his right thigh (which was caused by the insertion of the plate).  On examination : Mr Thakur is six feet tall and weighs 12 stone. Examination revealed a physically fit adult male with normal upper and lower limbs, with no wasting.  There is a scar 20 cm in length on the outer side of the right thigh, through which the femur was plated. Posterior to the lower part of the scar, for a distance of approximately 6 cm there is an area of impaired sensibility to touch. There has been some thickening of the thigh. Movements of the hip appear to be normal. There is a slight laxity of the ligaments around the knee so that a small amount of rocking from side to side and forwards and backwards   is   noted,   but this   will   improve over time.   It   presents   no functional impairment. No shortening of the right leg can be detected.  X-rays : Final X-rays of the right femur show what appears to be satisfactory healing following fixing of the plate. Plate and screw positions are also satisfactory.  Comments   and   conclusions :   On   30   August   2010,   Mr   Sahil   Thakur   sustained   a comminuted fracture to his right femur. He also sustained a number of bruises and lacerations to his body following a road traffic accident. His orthopaedic injuries were appropriately treated at The Royal Free Hospital and these injuries resolved fully within 18 months. Mr Thakur is unlikely to suffer any further complications from his orthopaedic injuries. I consider that he would have been fit to return to his work on desk duties from about mid-June 2020. He had made a full recovery by the end of March 2021 when I consider it was appropriate for him to return to work full time.  Expert declaration and statement of truth  1.   I understand that my duty included in providing written reports and giving evidence is to help the court, and that this duty overrides any obligation to the party   who engaged me. I confirm I have complied with my duty.  2.   I have endeavoured to include in my report those matters which I have knowledge of or of which I have been made aware that might adversely affect the validity of my opinion.  3.   I have indicated the sources of all information I have used.  4.   I have not, without forming an independent view, included or excluded anything which has been suggested to me by others, including my instructing lawyers.
22   ©   City,   University   of   London   202 1  5.   I will notify those instructing me immediately if for any reason my existing report requires correction, qualification or alteration.  6.   I understand that my report will form the evidence to be given under oath or affirmation and that I may be cross-examined on my report by counsel assisted by an expert. I also understand that I may be the subject of adverse criticism by a judge if the court concludes that I have not taken reasonable care in trying to meet the standards set out above.  7.   I confirm that I have not entered into an arrangement where the amount or payment of my fees is in any way dependent on the outcome of the case.  8.   I confirm that I have made clear which facts and matters referred to in this report are within   my   own   knowledge   and   which   are   not.   Those   that   are   within   my   own knowledge I confirm to be true. The opinions I have expressed represent my true and complete professional opinions on the matters to which they refer.  M Foley  Mr Michael Foley  B.Sc. (Hons), M.B.B.S., F.R.C.S. (Orth)
23   ©   City,   University   of   London   202 1  EXHIBIT ST 4  I V Investment Bank PLC  130 Pound Street City  EC1 2DC  Re: Mr Sahil Thakur  We confirm that the above named is employed by our company as Hedge Fund Investment Adviser. His employment commenced on 1 February 2014. Mr Thakur’s salary has been as follows:  Year commencing:   1 April 2019 - 60,500 net of tax and NI  1 April 2020 - 65,700 net of tax and NI  1 April 2021 – 70,900 net of tax and NI.  Mr Thakur was on sick leave from 1 September 2019 to 1 April 2021. He received full pay for six months and was paid 50% of his salary for a further six months. Thereafter he received no pay save for statutory sick pay until he returned to work.  He returned to reduced working hours on 1 April 2021 and has been paid his full salary since that date.  H Ellis  Payroll Manager  I V Investments PLC 24 September 2021
24   ©   City,   University   of   London   202 1  Made on behalf of the defendant  Witness: F. Mitchell First witness statement Exhibits: FM1 – FM2 Dated: 26.11.2021  IN THE COUNTY COURT AT CENTRAL LONDON   Claim No 0YJ3649  BETWEEN:  MR SAHIL THAKUR  and  MRS FELICITY MITCHELL  Claimant  Defendant  WITNESS STATEMENT OF FELICITY MITCHELL  1.   I am a full-time mother and housewife and I live at Pine Gable, 50 Watson Lane, Radlett WD7 7NN. I am the Defendant in this claim. I make this statement in connection with the application made by the Claimant in these proceedings for an interim payment. The matters set out below are within my own knowledge, except where I indicate to the contrary.  The accident  2.   I was born on 23 April 1977 and was aged 42 years at the time of the accident. I have been driving since I was 17 years old and I am familiar with the London area. I was driving my Range Rover, motor vehicle registration number FLICK 33, on the day of the accident.  3.   On the afternoon of the accident I had just picked up my sons, Oliver and Harry, and my daughter, Georgina, from Mill Hill Grammar School and was on my way to Vivian Avenue in Hendon where the children have private music lessons. The children were in the back of the car. We were all wearing seat belts.  4.   I   was   proceeding   carefully   along   Queen’s   Road,   heading   west   towards   Vivian Avenue. I was travelling at about 30 mph, but about 50 metres before the junction with the A41 the traffic slowed down to a walking pace. As I got nearer to the junction, I saw that the traffic lights were not working, although I did not see any warning signs saying this was the case. The cars in front of me were turning left onto the southbound A41. As I wanted to go straight over the junction I moved into the offside lane.
25   ©   City,   University   of   London   202 1  5.   Some cars on the southbound A41 had stopped to allow the cars in front of me out to turn left. I smiled at the drivers and they let me out too. I crossed the three lanes of the southbound A41 and was more or less in the middle of the junction waiting for a space to cross the northbound carriageway. A couple of cars drove past and then a woman driving a red Golf car stopped, she raised her hand and waved me across the junction.  6.   The road in front of me was clear so I accelerated across the carriageway. I got up to no more than 20 mph. The next thing I heard was a loud bang and my car stopped. I saw that a black Porsche sports-type car had hit the front passenger door, which had crumpled towards me.  7.   I was thrust forward quite violently and experienced severe pain in my neck and back. The children were screaming and shouting. A young man, who I now know to be Mr Zack Lee, came to the front passenger window and asked if we were alright. I said that I thought we were OK, and he went over to the black sports car. I tried to calm the children; but when I tried to get Georgina out of the car she was in terrible pain. I got the children out of the car with the help of some other people who had come to our aid.  8.   We stood on the pavement while some people directed the cars around the crash site. Mr Lee came back over to us and was a great help with Georgina. I was very upset and wanted to go over to the claimant’s car but Mr Lee said the claimant was not ‘too bad’ and just had a few scratches. I assumed he had problems getting out of the car because of the impact damage. He told me that he had seen the whole thing and the other driver had been speeding ‘like a mad idiot’. This would certainly explain why the claimant’s vehicle drove into my car which was clearly visible on   the junction.  9.   My vehicle was much higher than the Claimant’s and so, unfortunately, he appeared to take the brunt of the impact. I drive a large vehicle so that my children are safe. My children suffered whiplash injuries and bruising. Georgina was quite hysterical and was the most badly injured. I understand separate proceedings will be brought against the claimant in respect of her injuries.  10.   The police and ambulance arrived quite quickly. The claimant was taken to hospital; it was only at this stage I realised he was unconscious. The accident was not my fault. I told the police officer what happened at the scene and then we were taken in a second ambulance to hospital.  Grounds for opposing an interim payment  11.   Shortly after this incident my husband and I moved to Paris in connection with his work. The first time I knew of any conviction against me for careless driving was when I received the Claimant’s Particulars of Claim. My solicitor advises me that I have good grounds to have the conviction of 6 December 2019 set aside under section 142 of the Magistrates' Court Act 1980. A hearing has been set in the Hendon Magistrates' Court on 21 December 2021 for that purpose. The notice of hearing is exhibited below as ‘ FM 1 ’.
26   ©   City,   University   of   London   202 1  12.   As the court will see from the details I have given above, the accident was not my fault. The Claimant did not stop at the junction or check whether the road was clear before just keeping driving across. He himself is in breach of the Highway Code in several ways. I exhibit the relevant regulations here as ‘ FM 2 ’.  Claimant’s losses  13.   I have not yet had the chance to consider getting my own expert’s report in respect of the Claimant’s alleged injuries. In any event, the accident was his own fault as I have stated above. Even if the court finds otherwise, I am told by my solicitor that the Claimant is likely to be found at least 75 per cent contributory negligent.  14.   The Claimant has provided no receipts for many of his claimed losses. He has given no credit for any statutory sick pay at all. It appears that his own doctor is of the opinion that he was able to resume work much earlier than he in fact did.  15.   My Range Rover had damage to the nearside front wing panel, the whole of the front passenger side door had to be replaced, and there was some further bodywork damage that had to be repaired on the passenger side of the car. I was told that the main impact was on the front passenger door, and that it was very lucky that none of the children were sitting in the front passenger seat.  16.   I had the car repaired at Hendon Sports Utility Motors in September 2019. It took two weeks for the repairs to be completed, and they cost £4,913.27. I normally use the car for the school run, shopping, visiting friends and social activities. I had to use minicabs for the time the car was at the garage being repaired. These fares came to  £245.  17.   On all of these grounds, I am advised that the Claimant does not have a claim for a substantial sum of money, even if he could prove liability. As for what he says he wants the money for, I’m sure that his work must pay his expenses for his job, and frankly   I   could   do   with   a   holiday   having   come   back   to   all   the   stress   these proceedings are causing me! As for his contractors, I find it hard to believe that he did not pay them any kind of deposit up front, as I understand that the common practice of such contractors is to ask for at least half of the money on account. He has produced no evidence to show he does not have any savings.  18.   In all of the circumstances I ask this honourable court to dismiss the Claimant’s application for an interim payment, and grant me the costs which have been caused by today’s hearing.  STATEMENT OF TRUTH.  I believe that the facts stated in this witness statement are true. I understand that proceedings for contempt of court may be brought against anyone who makes, or causes to be made, a false statement in a document to be verified by a statement of truth without an honest belief in its truth.  SIGNED:   Felicity Mitchell  DATED: 26 November 2021
27   ©   City,   University   of   London   202 1  EXHIBIT FM 1  The Clerk to the Justices Hendon Magistrates' Court  The Court House  The Hyde Hendon  London NW9 7BY  Miss L Snowdon Snowden & Naylor LLP Old Court Square London  EC1B 4DU  Re: R v Mrs Felicity Mitchell; Conviction 6 December 2019  In reference to your recent correspondence applying to re-open the above matter under section 142 Magistrates' Courts Act 1980, please be aware that  A HEARING  has been listed on the  21 DECEMBER 2021  10am  at  Hendon Magistrates' Court The Court House  The Hyde Hendon  London NW9 7BY  when you should attend.  Mrs Mary Smith  Clerk to the Justices  THE COURT HOUSE IS OPEN BETWEEN 10AM–5PM MONDAY TO FRIDAY. ANY QUERIES SHOULD BE DIRECTED TO THE CLERK TO THE JUSTICES ON   020 8511 1200.
28   ©   City,   University   of   London   202 1  EXHIBIT FM 2  Extracts from The Highway Code  97  Before setting off. You should ensure that:  •   You have planned your route and allowed sufficient time.  104  You should also:  •   Watch out for signals given by other road users and proceed only when you are satisfied that it is safe.  109  Traffic light signals and traffic signs. You MUST obey all traffic light signals (see 'Light signals controlling traffic') and traffic signs giving orders, including temporary signals and signs (see ‘Traffic signs'). Make sure you know, understand and act on all other traffic and information signs and road markings (see 'Road markings' and 'Vehicle markings').  138  On a three-lane dual carriageway, you may use the middle lane or the right-hand lane to overtake but return to the middle and then the left-hand lane when it is safe.  146  Adapt your driving to the appropriate type and condition of road you are on. In particular:  •   Take the road and traffic conditions into account. Be prepared for unexpected or difficult situations, for example, the road being blocked beyond a blind bend. Be prepared to adjust your speed as a precaution.  •   Where there are junctions, be prepared for road users emerging.  •   Be prepared to stop at traffic control systems, road works, pedestrian crossings or traffic lights as necessary.  170  Take extra care at junctions.  171  You MUST stop behind the line at a junction with a ‘Stop’ sign and a solid white line across the road. Wait for a safe gap in the traffic before you move off.  175  You MUST stop behind the white ‘Stop’ line across your side of the road unless the light is green. If the amber light appears you may go on only if you have already crossed the stop line or are so close to it that to stop might cause a collision.

--- END OF FILE: Thakur bundle interim.pdf ---


--- START OF FILE: Williams sample opinion.pdf ---

1   ©   City, University   of   London   2021  LROPW-WILLIAMS-03-2122-OPW  Legal Research and Opinion Writing  Re: Williams Paper Products  Sample opinion
LROPW - WILLIAMS - 03 - 2122 - OPW  2   ©   City,   University   of   London   2021  Re: WILLIAMS PAPER PRODUCTS  OPINION  1.   I am asked to advise Anne and Toby Williams, who conduct a paper products business trading as Williams Paper Products from premises at Ashley Gardens, Battersea, London SW11, as to liability and quantum in respect of problems they have encountered after cork tiles were laid on a floor at their business premises.  SUMMARY OF FACTS  2.   Mr Robert Garner, a local builder who has since ceased trading, laid a new concrete floor for the packing room at the premises in December 2020. In or around February 2021 Mr and Mrs Williams entered into a contract with Floors R Us (‘Floors’) under which Floors agreed to supply and fit cork tiles on the floor for a price of £13,420 inclusive of VAT. Floors appears to be a partnership run by Mr Adam Kingston and Mr Frank Devlin. Floors laid the cork tiles in March 2020. Before doing so it apparently made no attempt to test the floor for dampness. The tiles failed to adhere to the floor. A visit on 25 May 2021 from a representative of National Tiles Ltd, the manufacturer of the tiles, revealed that this was because the floor was too damp when the tiles were laid. In and around July 2020, Mr and Mrs Williams decided to remove the tiles and have the floor carpeted instead.  SUMMARY OF ADVICE  3.   As the tiles were laid for the purposes of the business run by Mr and Mrs Williams, this is not a consumer contract, and so the contract will be governed by the Supply of Goods and Services Act 1982. In my opinion Mr and Mrs Williams have a very strong case against Floors for breach of contract. A court is likely to award damages to cover the cost of replacing the tiles, and the business disruption that was caused. Damages for replacement of the tiles are likely to be about £17,000. Damages for business disruption could be substantial and will require the collection of evidence from the company’s accounts.  LIABILITY  Contract with Floors  4.   It must be established that there is a properly formed contract. Mrs Williams’ draft witness statement refers to a quotation from Floors which she says she and her husband accepted in February 2021. While it is clear that the work was done, Mr and Mrs Williams will need to be able to prove that there was a contract with Floors. Documents relating to the quotation and its acceptance will need to be collected. I note from my papers that the Floors quotation is not currently available having been mislaid. It is an important document because it may contain terms of the agreement, and a further search for it should be carried out. Could Mrs Williams also be asked how the acceptance was communicated and what can be recollected about the conversation in which it occurred?
LROPW - WILLIAMS - 03 - 2122 - OPW  3   ©   City,   University   of   London   2021  Terms  5.   I would expect the quotation provided by Floors to contain some or all of the express terms of the contract. As my instructions do not mention any further documents, I assume that   there   was no   formal   written   contract.   This   opinion   is   given   on   the assumption that Floors expressly agreed to lay ‘Autumn Breeze’ cork tiles, but without specific provision for what would be entailed. There may be other documents such as an invoice, letters, emails or text messages containing further express terms. Please would those instructing me ask about such documents and whether other things were said prior to acceptance of the quotation which may amount to express terms of the contract.  6.   The question arises as to who had responsibility for ensuring that the floor was suitable and ready to be tiled with cork tiles. Floors’ solicitor argues that this was not Floors’ responsibility. This would imply that the responsibility fell on Mr and Mrs Williams. Given that Floors supposedly had the relevant expertise, a court would not readily accept this. Floors would need to establish that Mr and Mrs Williams knowingly and willingly assumed the risk of ensuring the floor was suitable for taking cork tiles. I would like to know   Mr   and   Mrs   Williams’   recollection   of   anything   said   during   pre-contractual conversations could be relied on by Floors to support such a contention.  7.   As Floors was acting in the course of a business, the contract will almost certainly have included an implied term under s.13 of the Supply of Goods and Services Act 1982 that Floors   would   exercise   reasonable   care   and   skill   in   carrying   out   its   contractual obligations. The care and skill required would have been that of the reasonable and competent flooring contractor.  8.   Floors will only be able to avoid the effects of s.13 if the implied term to use reasonable care and skill was negatived or varied by express agreement, or by the course of dealing between the parties (Supply of Goods and Services Act 1982, s.16(1)). From the papers sent with my instructions, it appears that this was the first and only contract Mr and Mrs Williams had with Floors (a newly formed business), so realistically the implied term could only have been negatived by express agreement. There is no requirement that the express agreement should be in writing and nothing in Mrs Williams' draft statement to suggest any such agreement. However, Mr and Mrs Williams must again be asked if anything said prior to acceptance of the quotation could be taken as excluding the s.13 term from the contract.  The contractual duty owed by Floors  9.   I have been provided with a report by Mr Smithers of NS Installations Ltd, who was instructed as a single joint expert. Mr Smithers says that any trained floor fitter would always have tested the floor for moisture. This is supported by the quotation from Marston & Co dated 5 June 2021, which includes a comment that its normal practice is to do a moisture meter test before laying tiles. This is powerful evidence of what “reasonable” care and skill would have been in the early stages of providing the service.  10.   It is less clear precisely what steps would have been taken to deal with a floor which was too wet for the laying of cork tiles. Both Mr Smithers and Marston & Co mention laying a moisture-resistant surface and waiting for the floor to cure, which Mr Smithers estimates would take about seven days.
LROPW - WILLIAMS - 03 - 2122 - OPW  4   ©   City,   University   of   London   2021  11.   An alternative was to wait for the concrete to dry. Mr Smithers at paragraph 7 of his report says that if the floor already contains a damp-proof membrane within it, it would take some months for the floor to dry out. It is not known whether such a membrane was inserted by Mr Garner. At paragraph 4 Mr Smithers says that, as a rule of thumb, drying out takes two weeks per inch of concrete. According to Mrs Williams, Mr Garner completed the concrete floor in January and Floors laid the cork tiles in March (a gap of about eight weeks). If the concrete floor had been four-inches thick, it would therefore have taken all of this full eight-week period to dry out. If it was more than four inches thick it would still have been damp at the time of laying the tiles (and it was). Given that the extension was visibly newly built, Floors probably had a duty to gather information about the date of laying the concrete and its thickness, as well as carrying out a moisture test. To build this part of the claim, it will assist to obtain the specification and other documents from the contract with Mr Garner to check the thickness of concrete he put down on this floor. Mr Smithers should be sent written questions under CPR, r.35.6, to clarify precisely what steps should have been taken by Floors before laying the tiles. If required, I would be happy to settle the necessary questions. Whatever the results of these inquires, Mr Smithers confirms my view that the use of “reasonable” care and skill would have consisted of:  (a)   testing the floor for moisture to satisfy themselves that the floor was fit to take cork tiles; and  (b)   advising Mr and Mrs Williams on any steps necessary to render the floor suitable for the tiles, whether in respect of moisture or any other factors.  Breach of Contract  12.   Although I have indicated further investigations into the scope of the duty, there is clear evidence that the floor was too wet to take the tiles even when Mr Smithers conducted his tests at the premises. Breach can therefore be proved simply through the evidence of Mr and Mrs Williams that no questions were asked about the floor, no advice given and no moisture tests carried out.  Defences  13.   The response currently being advanced by Floors is that the contract was simply to supply and install tiles selected by Mr and Mrs Williams, without the provision of any advice. This is not the first excuse that Floors have advanced. According to Mrs Williams, Mr Kingston initially blamed the adhesive. Then both he and Mr Devlin blamed the tiles themselves. Neither of these explanations have any apparent basis. They have also blamed Mr Garner, presumably on causation grounds (I discuss this below). This latest attempt to avoid liability may well strike a judge as being a rather desperate measure. If so, Floors will have a new problem of credibility. I think they will have difficulty in overcoming this.  Causation and Mr Robert Garner  14.   The response to the letter of claim alleges that the tile problem was caused by defects in construction of the floor by Robert Garner. However, this argument is misconceived. From the report provided by Mr Smithers, the primary cause of the failure of the tiles to adhere to the floor was its wetness. This may be established even more firmly by tile- laying instructions accompanying the tiles (these should be investigated, as they may emphasise the need for testing. Such instructions can doubtless be obtained easily from
LROPW - WILLIAMS - 03 - 2122 - OPW  5   ©   City,   University   of   London   2021  National Tiles Ltd). The need for a replacement floor covering was caused by the tiles  (a)   being laid on a damp floor and (b) the failure to check the moisture level in that floor prior to doing so. The reason for the floor’s continuing dampness at the time of laying the tiles is irrelevant (it makes no difference whether it arose out of Mr Garner’s work, or the presence/absence of an inner waterproof membrane). Even if there were some reason to think that Mr Garner’s work was defective, any investigation of it would involve digging up the floor, which would be undesirable now that Mr and Mrs Williams have laid carpet to escape further disruption. As far as any claim against Mr Garner is concerned, he is no longer trading, so it is unlikely that he could satisfy any judgment ordered against him. There is accordingly no sense in considering any claim against him.  QUANTUM  15.   It is basic law that Mr and Mrs Williams can claim damages for losses flowing naturally from the breaches of contract or losses that would have been in the reasonable contemplation of the parties at the time of contracting. There will be no issue in this case about the losses falling under either of those two limbs. Accordingly Floors will not be able to rely on remoteness of loss to support any defence which they file. The losses are:  (i)   the cost of removing the original tiles, which had to be discarded. Mr and Mrs Williams did the removal work themselves, so it would appear that there is no loss to recover under this head. They should be asked whether there were in fact expenses, such as the cost of solvents, tools and transporting and disposing of the discarded tiles. They should specify what these expenses were and retain any receipts. It may also be that they chose to go without personal income in giving up a day’s work to do the removal;  (ii)   the cost of the supply and fitting of a replacement floor covering (the cost of cure). This was the cost of buying and installing a carpet at £16,980;  (iii)   loss of profits during the period in which Mr and Mrs Williams and their employees had to slow down when working to avoid the dangers of the tiles that were lifting.  Carpeting of the floor to replace removed tiles  16.   On the papers available to me, the contract price paid was £13,420 inclusive of VAT. The quotation from Marston & Co to repeat the original work (including a latex screed to provide an evenly flat surface) was £18,000 inclusive of VAT. The Floors quotation is currently lost and so it is not known whether the contract price included a latex screed. If it did not, and the Marston figure were used as the basis for the claim for relaying tiles, the price of the screed would have to be deducted to avoid betterment. However, given that carpet was instead chosen and paid for, Mr and Mrs Williams will wish to recover that loss instead as the cost of cure. To do so they must persuade a judge that choosing carpet was reasonable.  17.   It is likely that Floors will raise an issue over the fact that the cost of the carpet (£16,980) exceeds the contract price (£13,420) by £3,560. They are likely to argue that the contract only entitled Mr and Mrs Williams to receive goods and services to the value of £13,420, and that by opting to spend an extra £3,560 they have failed to mitigate their loss. Two arguments can be advanced to defeat this. First, at £16,980 including VAT, the cost of the carpet was less than Marston & Co’s quoted cost of re-tiling. This itself demonstrates mitigation, although the lack of any other quotations (which may have contained lower prices) somewhat weakens the position. More persuasively, Mr and Mrs Williams can
LROPW - WILLIAMS - 03 - 2122 - OPW  6   ©   City,   University   of   London   2021  point to the fact that laying a carpet was the fastest way of enabling the business to trade at its full capacity, eliminating any lingering concerns about tripping hazards that might have accompanied a re-tiling of the floor. Spending the extra £3,560 to end the business losses was the cost of mitigation, and as such will be recoverable under basic principles.  The business losses  18.   In a claim for breach of contract Mr and Mrs Williams can recover profits lost through the reduced turnover caused by the problems with their floor. Mrs Williams suggests that this could be a substantial figure. The burden will be on them to prove the loss. If there are specific losses they should make a list of these, and set out how they resulted from the problems with the floor (for example, customers taking their business elsewhere because of the inconvenience of visiting or having to wait for delayed responses). Otherwise, the loss may be proved by a comparison of the profits of the business during the period of disruption and another similar period. Comparisons should be made between periods immediately before and after the disruption or during the same period in several previous years. Proving any loss of profits is likely to be extremely difficult. The fact that the building was expanded by the extension means that it may be impossible to compare like with like. It will also be difficult to identify how much loss arose from taking extra care while moving around cautiously to avoid the tripping hazards.  19.   I would suggest Mr and Mrs Williams review their business records from the 12 months before March 2021 and consider whether they can detect any downturn from March onwards. If so, it would probably be worth retaining a forensic accountant to produce a report on any loss of profits over that period, and any continuing reduction of profits as the business recovered. The fact that an increase in turnover was expected complicates the matter further still. If there was a business plan that underpinned the expansion of the premises this should be provided to the forensic accountant.  20.   Mr and Mrs Williams are disappointed at not being able to have a cork tile floor. However, this is not a case where damages for disappointment are available. It was not a major or important part of the contract to provide pleasure or peace of mind.  REPLACEMENT EXPERT  21.   My instructing solicitor has indicated that the solicitors for Floors wish to be able to instruct their own expert because they are unhappy with the conclusions given by Mr Smithers. The main question is probably whether there is a ‘not fanciful’ reason for seeking a second expert’s opinion ( Daniels v Walker   [2000] 1 WLR 1382). At present Floors   has   not   indicated   any   reason   for   seeking   a   second   opinion,   other   than dissatisfaction with Mr Smithers’ report. Permission is more likely to be granted in larger claims, so a loss of profits claim may make it difficult to oppose an application by Floors for a second expert. On the other hand, if my suggested review of the lost profit reveals only small losses (or even a lack of causation) this would probably make the expense of a second report disproportionate, so that Floors application would fail.  22.   I would suggest asking the solicitors for Floors their reasons for seeking evidence from a second expert. By the time they reply, Mr and Mrs Williams may have completed the review of their accounts, and a decision can then be made whether to pursue damages
LROPW - WILLIAMS - 03 - 2122 - OPW  7   ©   City,   University   of   London   2021  for the replacement floor covering alone, or to add the lost profits claim. Floors' request can then be reviewed with a better understanding of its likely merits.  NEXT STEPS  23.   Mr and Mrs Williams will need to set out full details of what was said and done by Mr Kingston when he came to measure up, of the conversations leading up to their acceptance of the Floors quotation, and what Mr Kingston and Mr Devlin said and did once the problem arose. For each conversation they will need to give the date, where it took place, who was present, and what was said. Further, instructing solicitors will need to ascertain whether or not each of the parties are partnerships or companies, so that the correct names of the parties are used in the statements of case. Both appear to be using trading names.  24.   At present Mr Smithers' report is in an informal format. For use in any litigation it will need to be revised to include the formalities required by CPR, Part 35.  25.   Instructing solicitors should not hesitate to contact me if there are any queries on this opinion.  Anish Barrister  ANISH BARRISTER  4 GRAY'S INN PLACE, LONDON WC1R 5DX  1 November 2021

--- END OF FILE: Williams sample opinion.pdf ---


--- START OF FILE: Williams sample research trail.pdf ---

1   of 4   ©   City,   University   of   London   202 1  Legal Research and Opinion Writing  Re: Williams Paper Products  Sample research trail
2   of 4   ©   City,   University   of   London   202 1  Re Williams Paper Products  1.   The clients’ problem  Mr and Mrs Williams’s business has suffered financial losses. They do not know if there is a legal remedy which will enable them to recover those losses. They do not know if any of the evidence of their current expert can be successfully challenged and replaced.  2.   Search terms (‘keywords’) for the clients’ legal position  The losses have been suffered by a business, and flow from work performed by another business under a contract for services. From this context, I chose the following initial keywords to confirm the relevant law:  contracts for services supply of services service contracts defective performance.  I used these keywords to generate further keywords from the index in the current 33rd edition of   Chitty on Contracts   (2018), incorporating the first supplement (Nov 2019), using the Westlaw database of CLS library. Author: Professor Hugh Beale.  ‘Defective performance’ did not appear in the index so generated no further keywords. ‘Services contracts’ redirected me to ‘contracts for services’.  ‘Contracts for services’ generated the following further keywords:  definitions 38-480–38-484  enforcement 38-587  exclusion of liability 38-585–38-586  information about the trader or service 38-572–38-576 information requirements 38-073  introduction 38-567–38-569  legislative style 38-479  mixed contracts 38-484  reasonable care and skill 38-571–38-576 reasonable price 38-578  reasonable time 38-577  remedies 38-580–38-584 ‘rights to enforce terms’ 38-467  services conforming to a contract 38-570–38-579 ‘services contracts’ 38-568  statutory terms 38-570–38-579  terminology 38-477–38-478  terms ‘treated as included’ 38-466  things ‘said or written’ by trader 38-573–38-574 ‘trader’ 38-482  trader liabilities 38-469.
3   of 4   ©   City,   University   of   London   202 1  ‘Supply of services’ generated the following further keywords:  bailment  care of the chattel 33-046  Consumer Rights Act 2015, and 33-045  generally 33-045  implied terms 33-046–33-048 price for service 33-048  time of performance 33-047 workmanship 33-046  implied terms  bailment 33-046–33-048  Consumer Rights Act 2015 and 14-046  generally 14-044–14-045 limitation of actions 28-053  restraint of trade  generally 16-171  professional work 16-172.  From these terms I eliminated all that were clearly not relevant. These included relating to the Consumer Rights Act 2015 because my instructions are that the clients were not consumers when entering a contract under which the services were provided (their losses have been suffered as a business).  This produced a shorter final list of keywords for my research:  definitions 38-480–38-484  enforcement 38-587  exclusion of liability 38-585–38-586 introduction 38-567–38-569  reasonable care and skill 38-571–38-576 remedies 38-580–38-584  ‘rights to enforce terms’ 38-467  services conforming to a contract 38-570–38-579 ‘services contracts’ 38-568  statutory terms 38-570–38-579  terminology 38-477–38-478  terms ‘treated as included’ 38-466  implied terms  generally 14-044–14-045.  3.   The relevant law  The introduction to services contracts at 38-567–38-569 confirmed the currency of the Supply of Goods and Services Act 1982.  By clicking on the link to ‘reasonable care and skill’ at 38-571–38-576, Westlaw confirmed that section 13 SOGSA 1982 is currently in force at today’s date (insert date). I then used the ‘point
4   of 4   ©   City,   University   of   London   202 1  in time’ function on Westlaw to confirm that s.13 of the Act was in force at the time of the events complained of by my client.  Paragraph   38-571   confirms   ‘no   special   explanation   is   provided   for   what   is   meant   by ‘reasonable care’ for these purposes’.  Reading further into Part II of the Act (‘Supply of Services’) I noted in s.16(1) further relevant law on the question of the contractors’ denial of responsibility for ensuring the suitability of cork floor tiles for the clients’ floor. Section 16(1) says:  ‘Where a right, duty or liability would arise... it may... be negatived or varied by express agreement, or by the course of dealing between the parties, or by such usage as binds both parties to the contract.’  4.   Legal issues on the claim  Given the relevant law above, there are two potential legal issues for a judge to decide at any future trial:  a)   Was the service in this case carried out with reasonable care and skill?  b)   What level of care and skill would a trial judge hold as being ‘reasonable’ in thecircumstances of this case?  c)   Did the clients enter any express agreement with their contractors to vary or negativeany of their rights under the contract?  5.   Search terms to research the current procedural position on expert evidence  To research the procedural law relevant to whether further or different expert evidence can be called by Floors R Us I listed the following search terms:  Expert  Witness  Evidence  Single  Report  Further  Alternative  Object  Different  Replacement  New  I looked in the index of White Book Volume 1 under the general heading “Expert evidence”. Under “single joint experts” I found “obtaining further evidence” and a reference to the editors’ commentary at paragraph 35.7.4. This paragraph referred to various first-instance decisions, but in particular a Court of Appeal Practice Note arising out of   D (A Child) v Walker   [2000] 1 WLR 1382.
5   of 4   ©   City,   University   of   London   202 1  I entered this case name into the case law field on Westlaw (this revealed that the case is also known as   Daniels v Walker ). I checked the currency of this authority on Westlaw by noting a ticked green circle and the annotation “Positive/Neutral judicial consideration”.  Per Woolf MR:  If, having obtained a joint expert’s report, a party, for reasons which are not fanciful, wishes to obtain further information before making a decision as to whether or not there is a particular part (or indeed the whole) of the expert’s report which he or she may wish to challenge, then they should, subject to the discretion of the court, be permitted to obtain that evidence.  The legal issue arising on the procedural point about experts  Are FRU’s reasons for wishing to obtain further information from an expert fanciful or not.  HARRY BARRISTER  1 November 2021

--- END OF FILE: Williams sample research trail.pdf ---


