--- Page 1 ---


--- Page 2 ---


--- Page 3 ---


--- Page 4 ---


--- Page 5 ---
CONTRIBUTIONS
PATRONAGE AND SUPERVISION
Hon'ble Mr. Justice Khalil Ur Rehman Khan
Chief Justice, Lahore High Court, Lahore
REVISION OF RULES & ORDERS
Hon’ble Mr. Justice Khalil Ur Rehman Khan (Volume |, II, IV and V)
Hon'ble Mr. Justice (Retd.) Malik Akhtar Hassan (Volumes | and Il)
Hon'ble Mr. Justice (Retd.) Chaudhary Fazal Karim (Volume II)
Hon'ble Mr. Justice (Retd.) Rustam S. Sidhwa (Volume V)
Hon'ble Mr. Justice (Retd.) Saad Saood Jan (Volume V)
Hon'ble Mr. Justice (Late) Chaudhary Zafrullah Kahn (Volume V)
RULES COMMITTEE
Hon'ble Mr. Justice Malik Muhammad Qayyum
Hon'ble Mr. Justice Abdul Hafeez Cheema
Hon'ble Mr. Justice Karamat Nazir Bhandari
SPECIAL ASSISTANCE
Hon'ble Mr. Justice Chaudhary Muhammad Nasim
SENIOR EDITOR
Syed ljaz Qutub
Additional District & Sessions Judge
0.S.D. (Rules), Lahore High Court
EDITOR
Muhammad Riaz
Deputy Registrar (Rules), Lahore High Court, Lahore
ASSISTANT
Muhammad Asghar Mughal, Superintendent (Rules)
Sh. Nasir Ali, P.A. to 0.S.D. (Rules)
Muhammad Saeed, Assistant
SYSTEM ANALYST
Khalid Shakoor
COMPOSING
Sardar Muhammad, Data Co-ordinator
Muhammad Saeed Aslam, Data Co-ordinator
PUBLISHERS
Muttaqi Printers (Kausar Brothers)
1-Turner Road, Lahore.


--- Page 6 ---
TABLE OF CONTENTS
VOLUME II
Chapter 1: Rules Under the Companies Act, 1913 ---------------------------- [omitted]
Chapter 2: Guardians and Wards ---------------------emememmemmemmemeceececeecneeeee- 02
Chapter 3: Investment of Trust MOReY -------------wrmsmmemmemmemmencnce ceca 26
Chapter 4: Insolvency Proceedings-----------=---=-ssmssmmmmmeemmemmemn cee cencennaenne 27
Chapter 5: Official RECEIVErS---mr--rmrmemmrmrommmrme msec ee 69
Chapter 6: Probate, Administration and Succession Certificates ---------------- 158
Chapter 7: Preservation of Wills ------------------ereereemeeem cence ceeeeeee- 170
Chapter 8: Civil COUrt ACCOUNLS ~--r-rmemmrmrommmrmemmm oscommerce 174
Chapter 9: Rules under the Mussalman Wakf Act, 1923 -------------------- [omitted]


--- Page 7 ---
Key to the symbols used in Volume Il
* Substituted vide Lahore High Court Notification No.
333/Rules II, D 4(1I), dated 21* September, 1996
** Added vide Lahore High Court Notification ibid.
*** Omitted vide Lahore High Court Notification ibid.
# Amended vide Lahore High Court Notification No. 402/Rules
II, D.4 (II) dated 28™ September, 1996.
Note: For original text and earlier amendments therein, the
previous edition(s) of the Volume may be consulted.


--- Page 8 ---
1
Rules and Orders of the
Lahore High Court Lahore
VOLUME ILI. - Instructions
To Civil Courts
CHAPTER 1
Rules made by the High Court under the powers conferred by
section 246 of the Indian Companies Act(VII OF 1913), as
amended by Act XXII of 1936.............***[Omitted]


--- Page 9 ---
2
CHAPTER 2
GUARDIANS AND WARDS
PART A -- GENERAL
*[1. Civil Judges empowered to try cases under the Act.- Section 5 of the Punjab
Family Courts Act, 1964, provides that "Family Courts" shall have exclusive
jurisdiction to entertain, hear and adjudicate upon matters specified in the Schedule.
Items 5 and 6 of the Schedule are "Custody of Children" and "Guardianship". Section
25 of this very Act further provides that a Family Court shall be deemed to be a
"District Court" for the purposes of the Guardians and Wards Act, 1890, as the
"Court" under the Guardians and Wards Act is the "District Court". Section 4-A(1) of
the Guardians and Wards Act, 1890, confers power on the High Court to empower
any officer exercising original Civil Jurisdiction subordinate to a District Court or
authorize any Judge or any District Court to empower any such officer subordinate to
him to dispose of any proceeding under this Act transferred to such officer under the
provisions of this section. The Hon'ble Judges have decided that, with a few
exceptions, all the work under the Guardians and Wards Act should be entrusted to
the Family Courts presided over by Ist Class Civil Judges to be specially nominated
for each district as permanent record, accounts and special registers are required to
be maintained. All the Senior Civil Judges in the Punjab have been empowered to
dispose of the proceedings under the Guardians and Wards Act, 1890. All the
proceedings under the Guardians and Wards Act are, therefore, to be transferred or
entrusted to the Senior Civil Judges for disposal.]
2. Minor's interest is the main consideration in appointing a guardian.- In
appointing guardians, Courts should work on the principle that the interest of the
minor is the main consideration (section 7). Very often it will be found that an
application for the appointment of a guardian has been made in the interest not of the
minor but of the applicant, especially when the application is for the guardianship of
an unmarried girl.
3. Discretion of Court in appointing a guardian and issuing notices of
application.- It does not follow that because an application is made for the
appointment of a guardian, one must necessarily be appointed. Every


--- Page 10 ---
3
application for guardianship should be laid at once before the Judge, who should only
issue notice if he is satisfied after examination of the applicant (except when the
applicant is the Collector) that there is ground for proceedings on the application
under Section 11 of the Act, and even then, he should exercise a careful discretion
as to the persons to whom notice should issue [section 11(iv)]. It should also be
noted that in certain cases a guardian cannot be appointed under the Act (section
19).
In appointing a guardian the Courts shall be guided by the provisions of section 17.
4. Reasons for rejecting an application in limine should be recorded.- If any
application is rejected in limine the Court must give its reasons for rejection as an
appeal lies under section 47 (a) of the Act.
5. No need to appoint a guardian of a deceased military servant for purposes of
pension.- Courts should not appoint a guardian, under the Guardians and Wards
Act, merely in order to enable the heir of a man who has died in military service to
draw a pension. A certificate signed by a Revenue Officer of or above the rank of a
Naib-Tahsildar is accepted as sufficient authority for the payment of such pensions to
de facto guardians.
6. Petty cases-proceedings should terminate on appointment of guardian.- By
Rule 8 of the rules framed under the Guardians and Wards Act, 1890, accounts are
required (vide Part B of this Chapter) from guardians only when the annual income of
the estate is likely to exceed Rs. 5000/- and in other cases only if the Court thinks fit
to order. Having regard to the petty sums involved in the vast majority of cases, it
should be the rule and not the exception that the latter class of proceedings should
terminate with the appointment of the guardian. Continuous control is desirable only
in the case of large properties.
7. Form of Bank account for current expenses.- Attention is drawn to rule 13
of the rules framed under the Guardians and Wards Act, 1890, --(vide Part B
of this Chapter). With respect to money required for the current expenses of the
estate and of the ward's maintenance, which is not to be invested, that rule lays down
no restriction as to the form of account, i.e., current account, savings account
or fixed deposit account in which it may be


--- Page 11 ---
4
placed. Such money should be placed in such form of Bank account as will be to the
best interests of the minor.
8. Restrictions regarding withdrawal from Bank account.- When permitting the
opening of an account in a Bank, the Court may direct that no withdrawal should be
made by the guardian from the account except under the orders of the Court. If such
restrictions are imposed on the powers of a guardian, they should be embodied in the
guardianship certificate; or if a separate order to this effect is recorded, an attested
copy of it should be forwarded to the Bank for registration along with an attested copy
of the guardianship certificate. The Court should see in particular that the amounts
kept in the Bank are no larger than are sufficient for current expenses and that all
surplus money is invested in accordance with rule 13 of the rules framed under the
Guardians and Wards Act 1890. (vide Part B, of this Chapter).
9. Cases in which money for current expenses are to be deposited in treasury.-
In cases falling under Rule 14, money required for current expenses must be
deposited in the treasury and the surplus money invested in Government Promissory
Notes as laid down therein.
10. Pass books, etc., to be kept by guardians.- All pass books, Government
Promissory Notes and Post Office Saving Schemes relating to Accounts of minors
should be kept by their guardians and inspected by the Court at least once a year.


--- Page 12 ---
5

PART B -- RULES
(Rules made by the High Court with the approval of the Provincial Government under
the powers conferred by section 50, subsection (1), clause (j), of the Guardians and
Wards Act, 1890, for the guidance of Courts in carrying out the provisions of the Act.)
1. Application for appointment of a guardian shall be in form A.- Application for
the appointment of a guardian of the person or property, or both, of a minor under
section 10 of the Act shall, subject to such variations as the circumstances of each
case may require, be in Form A annexed to these rules.
2. Notice required by section 11 shall be in form B.- The notice required by
section 11 of the Act shall be in Form B annexed to these rules.
3. Form and time for filing statement of property and debts. Further statements
when to be put in.- The statement showing the property and the debts of a ward, as
required by clause (b) of section 34 of the Act, shall be in Form C annexed to these
rules.
Only one such statement shall ordinarily be exhibited by the guardian, on or before
such date, subsequent to the assumption of guardianship, as the Court may fix,
unless for any special reason, to be recorded in writing, the Court shall subsequently
think it necessary to call for another statement or statements. The guardian shall,
however, inform the Court of any subsequent accrual of property to the minor, e.g.,
by inheritance, etc., and submit any statement with respect to it that may be called
for. The Court shall carefully examine the statements, submitted under this rule and
pass any further orders that may appear necessary for the proper management of
the property.
4. Guardian Certificate-points to be noted thereon.- When a guardian is
appointed under the Act, he should be furnished with a certificate of guardianship, in
Form F, and his attention should be drawn in particular to the provisions of sections
26, 27, 28, 29, 32, 33, 35, 36, 39, 44 and 45 of the Act which shall be printed in full
on the back of the said certificate. The certificate shall also state any special
restrictions imposed by the Court on the powers of the guardian at the time of his
appointment.


--- Page 13 ---
6
5. Bonds required from guardian-their forms and amount.- Except in cases in
which, for reasons to be recorded in writing, the Court directs otherwise, every
guardian of property appointed by the Court (other than the Collector of the District)
shall be required to execute a bond, with or without a surety or sureties as the Court
may think fit to direct, in a sum not less than the total estimated value of the movable
property and three years' profits of the entire estate. Such bonds shall be in Form D
annexed to these rules with such variations or modifications as will suit the
circumstances of each case.
6. Time to be fixed for filing bonds. Allowances of guardians and other orders.-
Orders in respect of (a) the execution, or otherwise, of such bond, and (b) the
amount, if any, of the allowance to be paid to the guardian, shall be made by the
Court at the time of appointing the guardian. When a bond is required the Court shall
fix the time within which such bond is to be furnished and the order of appointment
shall be made conditional on furnishing the bonds.
7. Entry of application in register No. 2. Cases in which periodical accounts are
to be put in to be entered in Register E.- (i) Every application for appointment of
guardian shall be entered in Civil Miscellaneous Register No. 2.
(ii) Every case, in which a guardian of property is appointed and the guardian is
directed to file accounts periodically, shall be entered in register No. XXVI (Form E)
and the particulars prescribed therein shall be entered from time to time as soon as
orders are passed by the Court, or the particulars are available. Cases should be
entered in this register chronologically and an alphabetical index thereof given in the
beginning of the register.
8. Accounts should be scrutinized once a year in cases of large
income.- When the annual income of the ward's estate appears likely to exceed
‘[Rs.5000/-], and in other cases if the Court thinks fit to so order, the guardian should
be directed to submit to the court once a year and on a fixed date an account of
the income and expenditure of the estate together with a list of the property, movable
or immovable, sold or purchased, and of the amounts due to and from the ward.
Such account shall be scrutinized by the Judge who should


--- Page 14 ---
7
certify that he has done so and should record such remarks thereon as may be
necessary.
9. Such cases to be treated as pending-minor to be produced before Court in
such cases.- When a guardian is required to submit yearly accounts to the Court,
the case should, until the ward concerned attains his majority, be treated as pending
and the ward should be produced before the Court on the dates on which returns
have to be furnished by the guardian, such dates to be reckoned as dates of hearing
and entered as such in the cause book of the Court.
10. Notice of application under sections 28 and 29 to be given to persons
affected by it.- When an application is made by a guardian for any of the purposes
referred to in sections 28 and 29 of the Act, the Court should, before disposing of it,
cause notice thereof to be given to such persons, whether relatives of the ward or
otherwise connected with him, as the Court may consider to be affected by the
application.
11. Annual Inspection of Wards by Courts.- In the absence of sufficient reason to
the contrary, all male wards should be produced before the Court once a year, and
the Court should, so far as is possible, examine their physical, intellectual and moral
conditions, and ask them whether they have any remarks to make on the subject of
the management of their estates. To facilitate this arrangement the Court should
maintain a list of all such wards.
12. Inspection of statements and accounts filed by the guardian.- All statements
and accounts submitted by a guardian should be kept with the records of the case to
which they relate ; and may, with the permission of the Court, be inspected by any
person legitimately interested in the same, on payment of the ordinary inspection fee.
13. Opening of accounts in approved banks in the name of minors for current
expenses. Investment of surplus money in government securities.- Where the
Court deems it necessary to direct the guardian to open an account in a bank,
the account shall be in the name of the minor through his guardian in the Post
Office Savings Bank, or in the National Bank of Pakistan or in any other
bank approved by the High Court. If, after payment of the current expenses of
the estate and of the ward's maintenance, there should be


--- Page 15 ---
8
any balance, such balance should be invested by the guardian in *[(i) Government
securities other than Post Office Savings Schemes; or (ii) Post Office Savings
Schemes; or (iii) Municipal Debentures, Port Trust Bonds and Wapda Bondds; or (iv)
National Savings Certificates], or in any other securities mentioned in clauses (a), (b),
(c) and (d) of section 20 of the Trusts Act, 1882 (II of 1882).
Note 1:- A list of banks approved by the High Court is supplied to subordinate courts
and additions and alterations made therein are communicated from time to time.
Note 2:- In order to enable a bank to open an account in the name of a minor
through his guardian, an attested copy of the guardianship certificate should be
supplied to it for registration.
14. Investment of money in cases of estates managed by Government. Ward's
money not to be deposited in the name of Court.- [(i) In cases in which the ward's
estate is under the management of Government, in the person of the District Judge,
the Collector or other Government officer, surplus moneys may be invested in
Government Promissory Notes, purchased through and held in the safe custody of
the National Bank of Pakistan , in accordance with the procedure laid down in
paragraph 110(b) and note 1 to paragraph 101 of Chapter IX of the Government
Securities Manual, 3rd edition. The income of the estate required for current
expenses of the management of the estate, the maintenance, and education of the
ward, should be deposited in the treasury.
(ii) The deposit of money in a private bank in the name of the District Judge or other
Government officer, as a guardian of a ward's estate, is prohibited,--(vide rule 7 et
seq, section V of the Treasury Rules (Punjab).
15. Court may pass orders for proper education of the ward in certain cases.-
When it appears to the Court, at the annual inspection of the ward or otherwise, that
orders are required as to the education of the ward, the Court should pass such
orders as appear to suit the case, regard being had to the present position and future
prospects of the ward's family and the intellectual capabilities of the ward himself.


--- Page 16 ---
9
16. Management of Wards' estates to be noted in annual report.- The
management of ward's estates should be specially noted in the Annual Civil Report
submitted by each District Judge and detailed mention should be made of the main
facts relating to the more important estates.


--- Page 17 ---
10
FORM B
[In the Court of ]
[Court of]
In matter of guardianship of ....son... of caste ...resident of ...Minor
rem |]
of the minor
EE lia] I
the nature and age of her husband
Rb fri I
if any, of the minor. ( For details see schedule on reverse.)
[* [mot mene prpeyot m= | |
possession of the person or property of the minor.
[e | What near relations the minor has, and where they reside. | |
f ‘Whether a guardian of the person or property, or both, of the
minor has been appointed by any person entitled, or claiming
to be entitled by the law to which the minor is subject to make
such an appointment.
‘Whether an application has at any time been made to the
Court or to any other Court, with respect to the guardianship
of the person or property or both of the minor, and if so, when,
to what Court, and with what result
Whether the application is for the appointment or declaration
of a guardian of the person of the minor, or of his property, or
both.
| mri pti ||
qualifications of the proposed guardian.
Ese
the grounds on which that person claims.
[| The causes which have led to the making of the application. | |
EEE
nature of the application renders it necessary to state.
Signatures of petitioner or of a person The above particulars are true to the knowledge
Duly authorized by him in this behalf. Of the person making them except as to matters
Stated on information and belief, and as to those
Matters he believes them to be true.
I, the guardian proposed in the above application, do herby declare that I am willing to act as such .
Attested by [e)) Signature of the person verifying
2) Signature of the proposed guardian


--- Page 18 ---
11
SCHEDULE TO FORM A.
Details of property belonging Value Names of persons in present
to ward Possession of the property
Mentioned in column 1.
@ [¢3)
[@) [©]
3) 3)
&ec. &c.


--- Page 19 ---
12
FORM B
FORM OF NOTICE UNDER SECTION 11 OF ACT VIII OF 1890
DISTRICT
In the Court of District Judge at
PRESENT
Case No. of 19.
Petitioner
Inhabitant of
Application for the ( )---------s-ssmememeeceemeeneenaof a guardian to the (2)----------w--e--
Of ------------n=nneeeeeeeeeeo- @ minor inhabitant of---------------.
Whereas the petitioner above-named has applied to be ()----------s--smsrmremmemmemeameaneeas
--—-the guardian of the (})------------s-rmrmmrmmrmeemmememeeaenaof the aforesaid minor, and
Ee 11] fo Ey [SEE | FE
been fixed for the hearing of the application; notice is hereby given to ( -----------c--e--
-------------that if any other relative, friend, kinsman or well-wisher of the aforesaid
minor desire to be appointed or declared as guardian of the (2) -------------- of the said
minor, or desire to oppose the application of the petitioner aforesaid, he should
appear personally in the Court on the aforesaid date, and adduce any documentary
and oral evidence in support of his claim to such appointment or declaration, or in
support of his opposition to the application of the petitioner aforesaid.
Given under my hand and the seal of this Court, this day of------19------.


--- Page 20 ---
13

SON) ET Fl
abl IE CL
| EEA
HR
i
HE = fd
hil | bE it
iii: H
SHIRTS
Hmm
(lH

[8

Fal |


--- Page 21 ---
14
iy |i
SH 1
5 = bot
BL
HE =
1 Bn —
5 AT (1
& = : H =
2 Hl
1 —
1B
a (ML 7
[i
a7 uN [2 1A


--- Page 22 ---
15
FORM D
Form of Bond under Section 34 of Act VIII of 1890

Know all men by these presents that | ( @)----=--==== Of ( b)-================ Of ( b)====sm==m==-
====mzmmmmm=== iN the (b)----------------- District am held and firmly bound to ( ¢)----------------
---------- the District Judge of------------------- his successors in this office or his or their
assigns in the sum of rupees -------------- to be paid to the said ( @)----=====-==--------------
---------District Judge, to his successors in this office or to his assigns and we-----------
Bl (melo ll (=) Ee]
=eemeeemeesinl the (@)-----------ssnmeemeemeeceeeeenecaeeaaenaes District and (f)---==-=eseeemeemeeemeneennan
District are jointly and severally held and firmly bound to the said ( g)----=-=============---
------mmmmmm----- OF his successors in office or his or their assigns in the sum of Rupees--
a ] be paid to the said
( h)-=========msmeemmemmmmmm-- Or his successors in office or his or their assigns for the
payment of which said sum of rupees----------------to be faithfully and truly made I the
above bounden ( j)----------------------bind myself and my heirs, executors,
administrators and representatives and for the payment of the said sum of rupees-----
---- we the above-bounden ( j)----------------------- and (k)----======--==----------- bind
ourselves and each of us jointly and severally and one and each of our heirs,
executors, administrators and representatives firmly by these presents signed by
ourselves and sealed with our respective seals this ----------day 0f-------------eee-=--19---
Whereas by an order of the court of the District Judge of------------------- made on the--
mmmmmmmmmmnneeeeeeooo-day Of--------------19----------under section 7 of


--- Page 23 ---
16

the Guardians and Wards Act (VIII of 1890) the above-named ( )------------------has
subject to his entering into a bond in rupees-----====-==-=-----With ( )-==========
the same sum
sureties in------------------ been appointed guardian of the property movable and
the sum of Rs.
immovable Of ( )----====smmsmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmnnneaeeeeeeeeee-minor son of (3)----------------- and
whereas the said ( )-----------------=----------—----- has agreed to enter into the above-
written bond and the said ( )---------------------==-==== @Nd (6)----==-===========--------- have
agreed to enter into the above-written bond as sureties for the said ( )---------------------
. Now the condition of the above-written bond is such that if the said ( )----============---
- do and shall justly and truly account whenever called upon to do so for what he may
receive in respect of the property of the said ( )--------------------- and shall carefully
observe, perform and obey all orders and directions of the said court of the District
Judge of--------------------- touching or concerning the estate and effects of the said
minor and his property and touching and concerning all such moneys and estates as
he the said ( )---------------------------shall receive as such guardian as aforesaid and in
all things conduct himself properly, then the above-written bond or obligation shall be
void and of no effect otherwise the same shall remain in full force and virtue.
Signed and sealed by the above-named.
FE — = Seal

Names of guardian

and sureties

In the presence of Seal Seal


--- Page 24 ---
17
oI
§ 3k 5
E | Iph pak
~ EE °F
: [Ed
Er [Fdis 3
Z x HE s
= = B 328 =
ge 23 i
xZ EZ 11d, 3
Ee 5g | alfiM i
E88 [To :
is Hen 3
SF if
5 5 ig
2° [Hin 3
g = it i
+= WEE 3 EEE
im li
£2 El
£3]: =
EF] i ge
i


--- Page 25 ---
18
EEN

HEE

i =

—t 18

1H g d

+H B

id | 8
fed

8 :

Fes Z

Ha =

i |

HL &

z

iE

iar

s0Ed 3

Seed 3
CELE

1550 ¢
Hi

TU el nd


--- Page 26 ---
19
FORM F
A.- FORM OF APPOINTMENT UNDER SECTION 7 OF ACT NO.VIII OF 1890
(GUARDIANS AND WARDS ACT)

Whereas this Court has, under the provisions of Section 7 of Act No.VIIl of 1890,
been pleased to appoint you,-------------------------- (or to declare you---------------to be)
guardian of (the property or the person and property) of--------------------- during the
period of his minority, to wit, till the--------------- day of the month of------- 19------,
subject to the provisions contained in the Act and the rules framed thereunder and
particularly those provisions contained in sections 26, 27, 28, 29, 32, 33, 35, 36, 39,
44 and 45 of the Act aforesaid (which are printed on the back of this certificate) you
are hereby authorised to take charge of the property of the minor in trust, to collect
and pay all just debts, claims and liabilities due to or by the estate of the minor, to
institute or defend suits connected with that estate and generally to do and perform
all acts which may be necessary to the due discharge of the trust vested in you,
provided always that you shall not mortgage, or charge, or transfer by sale, gift,
exchange or otherwise, any part of the immovable property of your ward, or lease
any part of that property for a term exceeding five years, or for any term extending
more than one year beyond the date on which your ward will cease to be a minor,
without the express sanction of this Court previously obtained: and that you shall
keep regular accounts of your receipts and disbursements, with all vouchers and
other documents necessary to establish their correctness, and shall carry out all
orders issued to you by this Court under the aforesaid Act.

Given under my hand and the seal of the Court this------==-====-==----------day 0f-----------
=em 19-mmee,

Extracts from the Guardians and Wards Act

26. Removal of the ward from jurisdiction.- (1) A guardian of the person appointed
or declared by the Court, unless he is the Collector or is a guardian appointed by
will or other instrument, shall not without the leave of


--- Page 27 ---
20
the Court by which he was appointed or declared, remove the ward from the limits of
its jurisdiction except for such purposes as may be prescribed.
(2) The leave granted by the Court under subsection (1) may be special or general,
and may be defined by the order granting it.
27. Duties of guardian of property.- A guardian of the property of a ward is bound
to deal therewith as carefully as a man of ordinary prudence would deal with it if it
were his own, and, subject to the provisions of this chapter, he may do all acts which
are reasonable and proper for the realization, protection or benefit of the property.
28. Powers of testamentary guardian.- Where a guardian has been appointed by
will or other instrument, his power to mortgage or charge, or transfer by sale, gift,
exchange or otherwise, immovable property belonging to his ward, is subject to any
restriction which may be imposed by the instrument, unless he has under this Act
been declared guardian and the Court which made the declaration permits him by an
order in writing, notwithstanding the restriction, to dispose of any immovable property
specified in the order in a manner permitted by the order.
29. Limitation of powers of guardian of property appointed or declared by the
Court.- Where a person other than a Collector, or a guardian appointed by will or
other instrument, has been appointed or declared by the Court to be guardian of the
property of a ward, he shall not, without the previous permission of the Court-
(a) mortgage or charge, or transfer by sale, gift, exchange or otherwise, any part of
the immovable property of his ward, or
(b) lease any part of that property for a term exceeding five years or for any term
exceeding more than one year beyond the date on which the ward will cease to be
minor.
32. Variation of power of guardian of property appointed or declared by the
Court.- Where a guardian of the property of a ward has been appointed or declared
by the Court, and such guardian is not the Collector, the Court may from time to
time, by order define, restrict, or extend his powers with respect to the property of
the ward, in such manner and to such extent as it


--- Page 28 ---
21
may consider to be for the advantage of the ward and consistent with the law to
which the ward is subject.
33. Right of guardian so appointed or declared to apply to the Court for opinion
in management of property of ward.- (1) A guardian appointed or declared by the
Court may apply by petition to the Court which appointed or declared him, for its
opinion, advice, or direction on any present question respecting the management or
administration of the property of his ward.
(2) If the Court considers the question to be proper for summary disposal, it shall
cause a copy of the petition to be served on, and the hearing thereof may be
attended by, such of the persons interested in the application as the Court thinks fit.
(3) The guardian stating in good faith the facts in the petition, and acting upon the
opinion, advice or direction given by the Court, shall be deemed, so far as regards
his own responsibility, to have performed his duty as guardian in the subject-matter
of the application.
35. Suit against guardian where administration bond was taken.- Where a
guardian appointed or declared by the Court has given a bond duly to account for
what he may receive in respect of the property of his ward, the Court may, on
application made by petition, and on being satisfied that the engagement of the bond
has not been kept, and upon such terms as to security, or providing that any money
received be paid into the Court or otherwise as the Court thinks fit, assign the bond to
some proper person, who shall thereupon be entitled to sue on the bond in his own
name as if the bond had been originally given to him instead of to the Judge of the
Court, and shall be entitled to recover thereon, as trustee for the ward, in respect of
any breach thereof.
36. Suit against guardian where administration bond was not taken.- Where a
guardian appointed or declared by the Court has not given a bond as aforesaid, any
person, with the leave of the Court, may as next friend, at any time during the
continuance of the minority of the ward, and upon such terms as aforesaid, institute
a suit against the guardian, or, in case of his death, against his representative, for
an account of what the guardian has received in respect of the property of the
ward, and may recover in the suit, as trustee for


--- Page 29 ---
22
the ward, such amount as may be found to be payable by the guardian or his
representative, as the case may be.
39. Removal of guardian.- The Court may, on the application of any person
interested, or of its own motion, remove a guardian appointed or declared by the
Court, or a guardian appointed by will or other instrument, for any of the following
causes, namely-
(a) for abuse of his trust;
(b) for continued failure to perform the duties of his trust;
(c) for incapacity to perform the duties of his trust;
(d) for ill-treatment, or neglect to take proper care of his ward;
(e) for contumacious disregard of any provision of this Act or of any order of the
Court;
(f) for conviction of an offence implying, in the opinion of the Court, a defect of
character which unfits him to be the guardian of his ward;
(g) for having an interest adverse to the faithful performance of his duties;
(h) for ceasing to reside within the local limits of the jurisdiction of the Court;
(i) in the case of a guardian of the property, for bankruptcy or insolvency;
(j) by reason of the guardianship of the guardian ceasing, or being liable to cease,
under the law to which the minor is subject:
Provided that a guardian appointed by will or other instrument, whether he has been
declared under this Act or not, shall not be removed-
(a) for the cause mentioned in (g), unless the adverse interest accrued after the
death of the person who appointed him, or it is shown that that person made and
maintained the appointment in ignorance of the existence of the adverse interest; or


--- Page 30 ---
23
(b) for the cause mentioned in clause (h), unless such guardian has taken up such a
residence as, in the opinion of the Court, renders it impracticable for him to discharge
the functions of guardian.
44. Penalty for removal of ward from jurisdiction.- If, for the purpose or with the
effect of preventing the Court from exercising its authority with respect to a ward, a
guardian appointed or declared by the Court removes the ward from the limits of the
jurisdiction of the Court, in contravention of the provisions of section 26, he shall be
liable, by order of the Court, to fine not exceeding one thousand rupees, or to
imprisonment in the jail for a term which may extend to six months.
45. Penalty for contumacy.- (1) In the following cases, namely-
(a) if a person having the custody of a minor fails to produce him or cause him to be
produced in compliance with a direction under section 12, subsection (1), or to do his
utmost to compel the minor to return to the custody of his guardian in obedience to
an order under section 25, subsection (1); or
(b) if a guardian appointed or declared by the Court fails to deliver to the Court, within
the time allowed by or under clause (b) of section 34, a statement required under that
clause, or to exhibit accounts in compliance with the requisition under clause (c) of
that section, or to pay into the Court the balance due from him on those accounts in
compliance with a requisition under clause (d) of that section; or
(c) if a person who has ceased to be a guardian, or the representative of such a
person, fails to deliver any property or accounts in compliance with a requisition
under section 41, subsection (3),
the person, guardian, or representative, as the case may be, shall be liable, by order
of the Court, to fine not exceeding one hundred rupees, and in case of recusancy to
further fine not exceeding ten rupees, for each day after the first during which the
default continues, and not exceeding five hundred rupees in the aggregate, and to
detention in the jail until he undertakes to produce the minor or cause him to be
produced, or to compel his return, or to deliver the


--- Page 31 ---
24
statement, or to exhibit the accounts, or to pay the balance, or to deliver the property
or accounts, as the case may be.
(2) If a person who has been released from detention on giving an undertaking under
subsection (1) fails to carry out the undertaking within the time allowed by the Court,
the Court may cause him to be arrested and recommitted to the jail.
B - CERTIFICATE OF ADMINISTRATION UNDER ACT VIII OF 1890
| ------nnnmnmmeeeeeee, Judge of the =------=--------------------- District, do hereby make known
that on the-----------day Of--------=--------19---------- a certificate of administration of the
property Of------------------------0f (place)-------------------------, a minor subject to the
jurisdiction of this Court under Act VIII of 1890, was granted by me t0------=======zssmnnuan
----of (place)----------------------he having undertaken to administer the same on behalf
of the above-named.
2. | do further make known that the said--------------------has been appointed guardian,
under Act VIII of 1890, of the person of the above-named minor.
Given under my hand and the seal of the Court, this day of --------19----.
Judge of the------------------District
Note:- The holder of this certificate is empowered, under Act VIII of 1890, to exercise
the same powers in the management of the estate as might have been exercised by
the proprietor if not a minor and may collect and pay all just claims, debts or liabilities
due to or by the estate; but he has not power to sell or mortgage any immovable
property, or to grant a lease thereof for any period exceeding five years without an
order of the Court previously obtained.
Clause 2 of the certificate will be omitted unless the court sees fit to appoint same
person to be administrator of the estate and guardian of the minor.


--- Page 32 ---
25

PART C -- RULES
Rules made by the High Court with the approval of the Provincial Government, under
the powers conferred by section 50, subsection (i), clause (ff) of the Guardians and
Wards Act, 1890, regarding the levy of fee for the audit of Guardians and Wards
Accounts.
(1) In order to meet the cost of audit of the guardians and minors accounts by
Government, the court shall require the guardian to credit one per cent of the estate's
income into the *[State Bank of Pakistan or National Bank of Pakistan] under the
head #[1200000-Receipts from Civil Administration and other Functions; 1210000-
General Administration Receipts; 1212100-Fiscal Administration Audit; 1212180-
Fiscal Administration Audit-others (58)]. The audit fee thus credited and supported by
the Bank challan shall be incorporated in the accounts of the estates concerned
submitted to the Court annually by the guardian under rule 8 of Chapter 2 B, High
Court Rules and Orders, Volume II. The Court will not pass accounts unless it is
satisfied that the requisite audit fee has been duly credited into the treasury.
(2) The Guardian Judge is authorised to waive recovery of audit fee upto a limit of
Rs. 10 in each case, if he is satisfied that it cannot conveniently be recovered or that
the cost of its recovery is likely to exceed the amount to be recovered. All cases of
non-recovery of audit fee exceeding Rs. 10 must be reported to the High Court.
These rules were enforced with effect from the Ist April 1944.
(High Court notification No.66-R/XV-B-8, dated the 20th April, 1945).


--- Page 33 ---
26
CHAPTER 3

INVESTMENT OF TRUST MONEY
Rules made by the High Court, under the powers conferred by section 20, clause (f)
of the #]...] Trusts Act, 1882, authorising the investment of trust moneys.
“1. Investment of Trust money.-- In accordance with the power contained in clause
(f) of section 20 of the Trust Act, 1882, it is declared that the Trust-property
consisting of money may be invested in any of the following:-
(i) Government Securities other than Post Office Saving Schemes.
(ii) Post Office Savings Schemes.
(iii) Municipal Debentures, Port Trust Bonds; and WAPDA Bonds.
(iv) National Savings Certificates.
(The above Securities are recognized Securities as per Rule 3.6 of the Punjab
Subsidiary Treasury Rules)].


--- Page 34 ---
27
CHAPTER 4
INSOLVENCY PROCEEDINGS
Chapters 4 and 5 have been revised by the High Court under section 79 of the
Provincial Insolvency Act and ‘Article 202 of the Constitution of the Islamic Republic
of Pakistan, 1973], with the previous sanction of the Provincial Government.
(High Court Notification No.242-R//XV-A-17, dated the 25th August, 1938).
PART A -- GENERAL
1. Courts having jurisdiction to try insolvency cases. Priority should be given
to insolvency work.-- Under section 3 of the Provincial Insolvency Act, 1920, all
District Courts are invested with jurisdiction under the Act and the Provincial
Government is also empowered to invest subordinate Courts with concurrent
jurisdiction. In the Punjab, besides Judge of the Court of Small Causes at Lahore
"[...] all Civil Judges of the Ist Class have been invested with such jurisdiction; but
the High Court has directed that only those Civil Judges of the Ist Class should take
cognizance of proceedings under the Act who are expressly permitted by the High
Court to do so.
The Hon'ble Judges have decided that all the work under the Provincial Insolvency
and the Guardian and Wards Acts should be entrusted to a special Ist Class Civil
Judge in all districts with certain exceptions, and it shall be the primary duty of every
Civil Judge so appointed to do insolvency and guardianship cases, original civil
cases being done only if he can spare time.
2. Forum of Appeal.-- When a subordinate Court exercises concurrent jurisdiction,
appeals from its orders lie to the District Judge (section 75).
3. Persons by or against whom a petition for insolvency may be filed.-- A
petition for insolvency under the Provincial Insolvency Act may be filed by or against
any individual or firm but not by or against any association,


--- Page 35 ---
28
corporation or company registered under any enactment for the time being in force.
4. Procedure to be followed.-- Subject to the special provisions of the Provincial
Insolvency Act, 1920, the Insolvency Courts shall follow the same procedure as they
do in the exercise of original civil jurisdiction (vide Section 5).
5. Process fee chargeable for all notices issued.-- The practice of charging no
process fee in respect of notices sent to or served on creditors is against the
provisions of section 20 of the Court Fees Act under which process fee has to be
charged for any mode of serving or executing a process or notice whether by post or
through the ordinary process-serving agency.
6. Notice by registered Post and in the official Gazette. It should be noted in
connection particularly with petitions involving a large number of creditors, that the
publication in the Official Gazette is in itself a notice to creditors and it would be
sufficient in most cases especially of debtor's applications to issue notice by
registered post, and if the creditors do not attend, it will be because they expect that
realizations will not be worth the trouble. It may, of course, be necessary to take
special steps to inform creditors for large amounts or at distant places.
7. The amount of debt and other conditions requisite for insolvency petition
and summary administration.-- Conditions under which a debtor or his creditor can
file a petition are laid down in sections 9 and 10 of the Act. It is important to note,
however, that section 10 of the Provincial Insolvency Act has been amended by
section 3 of the Punjab Relief of Indebtedness Act, VII of 1934.
According to section 10 of the Provincial Insolvency Act, a debtor is entitled to
present an Insolvency petition if inter alia "his debts amount to Rs.500." This limit has
been reduced to Rs. 250 by section 3 of Act VII of 1934 in cases where the debtor
can also satisfy the Court that he is entitled to summary administration of his estate
under section 74 of the Provincial Insolvency Act.


--- Page 36 ---
29
The benefits of summary administration were open under section 74 of the Provincial
Insolvency Act to those debtors only whose property was not likely to exceed in value
Rs.500. This limit has been raised to Rs. 2,000 by section 4 of the Punjab Relief of
Indebtedness Act, with the result that wider circle of debtors is now entitled to take
advantage of the summary procedure.
8. Oral examination of the debtor and summary inquiry advised to dismiss
dishonest applications.-- Section 10 of the Provincial Insolvency Act requires the
debtor to prove inter alia that he is "unable to pay his debts." Section 24 of the Act
provides that ‘prima facie’ proof is sufficient for this purpose but if the debtor is
carefully examined by the court as required by section 24 such examination,
supplemented by a summary enquiry, will frequently enable the Court to dismiss in
limine dishonest applications.
If the Court finds subsequently that an order for adjudication ought not to have been
made, the order can be cancelled at a later stage.
[9. Duty of Insolvency Court to inform proper authority when a Government
servant is adjudged insolvent or adjudication is annulled, or is discharged.—-
When a Government servant is adjudged an insolvent, the Head of Department
concerned should be informed of the insolvency by the court as soon as an order of
adjudication has been passed. The court should, in forwarding the information, draw
the attention of the Head of Department to the provisions of rule 17 of the West
Pakistan Government Servants Conduct Rules, 1966, which provides, inter alia, that:
"A Government Servant shall avoid habitual indebtedness. If a Government Servant
is adjudged or declared insolvent or if the whole of that portion of his salary which is
liable to attachment, is frequently attached for debt, has been continuously so
attached for a period of two years, or is attached for a sum which, in ordinary
circumstances, he cannot repay within a period of two years, he shall be presumed to
have contravened this rule, unless he proves that the insolvency or indebtedness is
the result of circumstances which, with the exercise of ordinary diligence, he could
not have foreseen or over which he had no control and has not proceeded from
extravagant or dissipated habits."]


--- Page 37 ---
30
9-A [Omitted].
10. In deciding a debtor's inability to pay his debts, the value of his land should
be taken into consideration even though it is not liable to sale.-- Petitions for
insolvency are sometimes put in by members of agricultural tribes who own
considerable land or property by the sale of a portion of which they could easily
discharge their debts. A person of this description cannot obviously be considered to
be "unable to pay his debts," merely because his land is subject to certain restrictions
as regards alienation under the Punjab Alienation of Land Act, 1900.
11. Period for application for discharge should be fixed in the adjudication
order.-- When a person is adjudged an insolvent, the adjudication
order must specify the period within which the insolvent is to apply for his discharge
(section 27).
12. Official Receivers should normally be appointed Receivers.-- The proper
administration of an insolvent estate depends mainly on the efficiency of the Receiver
and the selection of a suitable Receiver requires, therefore, careful attention of the
Court.
In most districts "Official Receivers" have been appointed and where an Official
Receiver exists, he must be appointed a Receiver in all insolvency proceedings,
unless the Court directs otherwise for special reasons (vide section 57)(For
instructions as regards "Official Receivers", see Chapter 5 of this Volume). In other
cases, the appointment of a Receiver rests with the Court and every endeavour
should be made to select a reliable person able to keep accounts and discharge the
duties of a Receiver under the Act efficiently.
13. Receivers should give security, amount and form of security bonds.-- The
Court should be careful to take adequate security from the Receiver with due regard
to the value of the assets likely to pass through his hands.
The Court should use due discretion in fixing the amount of security to be taken in
such cases. It is suggested as a principle which might usefully be adopted that the
amount should roughly be equal to half the average annual realizations calculated on
the realizations of the last five years.


--- Page 38 ---
31
The forms of security and security bonds should be the same as those prescribed for
Official Receivers in Chapter 5-A of this Volume, the word " General" being
substituted for the word "Official" wherever it occurs in the bond.
14. Schedule of creditors and other necessary directions to be supplied to
Receivers.-- The Receiver should be furnished with a copy of the schedule of
creditors (which must be prepared by the Court-- vide section 33) and should be
given any further directions as regards his duties and administration of the estate as
the Court may think necessary in each case.
15. Schedules of the property and lists of creditors should be checked by a
court official before delivering them to the Receiver.-- The Schedules prescribed
in Form No. 2 (printed at the end of this Chapter) must be examined carefully in
Court when they are first presented with the Insolvency petitions as the entries in the
Official Receivers' Registers are often incomplete because these schedules do not
supply the requisite information.
The Courts should specially entrust the duty of checking these schedules to one of
the officials and see that it is carried out.
The lists put in by the insolvents should also be verified by the Court to see that they
tally with each other before one copy is handed over to the Receiver.
16. Insolvent's property vests in the Receiver including lands of members of
agricultural tribes.-- On the appointment of a Receiver all the insolvent's property,
subject to certain exceptions, vests in the Receiver (vide section 28) and can be
utilized for the payment of his debts.
It has been held by the Lahore High Court that although land belonging to a member
of an agricultural tribe cannot be sold in execution of any decree or order of a Civil
Court, there is no objection to the "temporary alienation" of such land in execution of
decrees or for the discharge of the insolvent's debts (See I.L.R.I Lahore 192, F.B.,
and 2 Lahore 77).
17. Adjudication order is a bar to fresh suits. Stay of pending suits optional but
advisable.-- On the passing of an adjudication order, a creditor cannot institute a suit
against the insolvent for the recovery of his debt,


--- Page 39 ---
32
but must prove his debt in the Insolvency Court. But pending suits may be stayed or
continued on such terms as the trial Court may deem fit. (Sections 28-29.).
Insolvency petitions are sometimes kept pending for long periods in order to await
the result of civil suits instituted by the creditors for the recovery of their debts in the
ordinary courts. The correct course in such cases generally is to allow the parties to
move the Civil Courts concerned to stay the suits in order that the plaintiff's claim
may be proved in insolvency as otherwise one creditor alone may hold up the
proceedings in insolvency and thus indirectly delay or prejudice the interests of other
creditors.
18. Adjudication order no bar to arrest of debtor in execution.-- Under the
Provincial Insolvency Act, 1920, an adjudication order does not, by itself, confer on
the insolvent any immunity from arrest in execution of decrees. It is left to the
Insolvency Court to decide whether to grant him such protection, and if so, to what
extent (section 31).
19. Insolvency case should be treated as pending till complete winding up of
the debtor's estate.-- Insolvency cases should not be treated as disposed of when
an order of adjudication has been passed, but should be treated as pending till all the
realizable assets have been collected and the proceeds divided among creditors. It is
important to note that an order of discharge does not necessarily terminate the
proceedings in insolvency and the file of each case must be kept pending even after
discharge if the annual winding up of the estate is still incomplete.
The Court should fix dates at suitable intervals for the Receiver to report the progress
in the realization of the insolvent's assets and produce his accounts. On the dates so
fixed, the Receiver's report and the accounts should be seen and the objections of
the parties concerned (if any) should be heard and proper orders passed thereon. No
solvency case should be adjourned sine die.
20. Duty of insolvent to co-operate with the Receiver.-- The insolvent is bound
to assist in the administration of his estate in every way. If he fails to perform
his duties or is found guilty of fraudulent conduct, he is liable to be prosecuted under
section 69. In such cases, however, the Insolvency Court


--- Page 40 ---
33
is now required to make a complaint to a Magistrate having jurisdiction. (Section 70).
21. Power of Insolvency Court to decide all questions of title, etc.-- Section 4 of
the Act is very comprehensive and enables the Insolvency Court to determine all
questions of title on priority arising in the Insolvency proceedings, which "the Court
may deem it expedient or necessary to decide for doing complete justice or making a
complete administration of property in any such case." However, though the
Insolvency Court has wide powers to decide such questions, still in cases involving
difficult questions and unusual complications, it is advisable to relegate the parties to
regular suit.
22. Effect of insolvent not applying for discharge within the fixed period. Object
of fixing such time.-- The provisions of sections 41 to 43 of the Act, as regards the
discharge of the insolvent, are very important and should be carefully studied. The
intention of the legislature in requiring the Court to fix a period in the adjudication
order, within which the insolvent must apply for discharge, is to ensure that the
conduct of the insolvent should in all cases be brought under review by the Court
within a reasonable time. If the insolvent does not apply for his discharge within the
time, he is liable to have the adjudication annulled, and the result will be that he will
not only not get back the property distributed amongst his creditors, but he will at the
same time be still liable to arrest and imprisonment in execution of decrees against
him.
23. Period for application for discharge should not ordinarily exceed one year.--
(i) The period fixed for an application for discharge should not ordinarily be more than
one year in the first instance.
(ii) This period should not be extended without sufficient grounds. The following
remarks in the Report of the Civil Justice Committee appointed in 1924-25 deserve
the attention of Courts:-
“We incline to think that the time within which application for discharge should be
made is either being extended with undue frequency or that this matter is being
ignored by Receivers and by Courts. Possibly too, there is some misunderstanding,
by reason of which creditors, who have compromised with the insolvent, are
being allowed some say in the matter. It cannot be


--- Page 41 ---
34
too strongly emphasized that unless an insolvency is in due form annulled, the
insolvent should in every case be proceeded against unless he applies for his
discharge within the time limited. It may be that Receivers postpone or agree to
postponement of the date for application for discharge, because the discharge, when
granted, terminates the time during which any property accruing to the insolvent
enures for the benefit of his creditors. In such cases, however, the proper course, as
a rule, is not to postpone the application for discharge but to make the application;
the Court being able to suspend the discharge for such period as is proper.’ (Vide
Pages 234-35 of the Report).
24. Court should carefully study the revised rules given in Chapter 4-B.-- The
revised rules under section 79 of the Provincial Insolvency Act, 1920, framed by the
High Court with the sanction of the Provincial Government should be carefully
studied and followed. (See part B of this Chapter).
The attention of Courts is invited in particular to rule 56 of Chapter 4-B of this Volume
which contains directions to regulate the appointment and procedure of Committees
of Inspection under section 67-A of the Act.
25. Separate file to be kept for all High Court letters and instructions about
insolvency.-- The Insolvency Courts should maintain a separate file for all the letters
and instructions issued by the High Court about insolvency work and Official
Receivers.
26. Register No. 15 of adjudicated insolvents should be properly maintained.--
The attention of Courts is drawn in particular to the necessity for the proper and
regular maintenance of a register in form No.15 (Register of persons adjudicated
insolvents). This Register, if maintained properly, can give a very useful picture of the
proceedings taken in each case for the administration of the Estate. It has been
noted that the second part of the Register (which is to contain an abstract of the
Receiver's Reports) is either not maintained properly or omitted altogether. The
Courts should see that this Register is maintained properly.


--- Page 42 ---
35
27. Causes of delay in disposal of insolvency cases.—- It has been found as a
result of inspections that delay in the disposal of insolvency cases is due chiefly to
one or more of the following causes:-
(i) Failure on the part of the Court to scrutinize the petitions carefully at the time of
their institution to see if the provisions of section 13 of the Provincial Insolvency Act
as to the contents of the petition have been complied with or not.
(ii) Failure of the petitioner to put in the initial deposit within the time specified by the
Court and repeated adjournments granted for the purpose. The Courts in case of
default should decline to entertain the petition and return it with this objection.
(iii) Failure of the debtor to furnish security in time as ordered by the Court.
(iv) Failure of the Court generally to fix any period within which the requisite process-
fees should be put in (vide paragraph 2, Chapter I-K, High Court Rules and Orders,
Volume I.)
(v) Delay on the part of the Court establishment in issuing notices promptly.
(vi) Delay in service of notices on creditors.
(vii) Failure to name in the first instance all the persons capable of acting as
guardians ad litem for the minor respondents.(See Order XXXII, rules 3 and 4 as
amended by the Lahore High Court.)
(viii) Frequent and unnecessary adjournments for compromises which never
materialize.
(ix) Failure to continue the recording of evidence from day to day.
(x) The hearing of Insolvency petitions is sometimes adjourned repeatedly and quite
unnecessarily in order to give time to the creditor's witnesses who naturally
exaggerate the value of the debtor's property to buy up the property at their own
valuation. They never, of course, do buy the property usually, and the only result
generally is the prolongation of the proceedings.


--- Page 43 ---
36
(xi) The cases are frequently adjourned for arguments only which should be really
unnecessary except in cases of unusual difficulty.
(xii) Ex parte proceedings are taken without a careful examination of the process-
server's report and when taken are set aside too readily on payment of costs without
any other reason being sought or assigned.
(xiii) Adjournments are granted unnecessarily for the putting in of written replies to
miscellaneous application of a petty nature.
(xiv) Adjournments are granted too frequently by some courts at the request of
unready counsel who do not come prepared with their cases.
These and other fretful causes of delay in the disposal of insolvency work should be
checked assiduously.


--- Page 44 ---
37
PART B -- RULES MADE BY THE HIGH COURT WITH THE SANCTION OF THE
PROVINCIAL GOVERNMENT, UNDER THE POWERS CONFERRED BY SECTION
79 OF THE PROVINCIAL INSOLVENCY ACT, 1920, FOR CARRYING INTO
EFFECT THE PROVISIONS OF THE ACT
1. Title and application.-- These rules may be cited as The Punjab Provincial
Insolvency Rules and shall apply to all proceedings under the Provincial Insolvency
Act, 1920.
2. Adaptation of forms prescribed.-- The forms annexed to these rules (printed at
the end of this Chapter), with such variations as circumstances may require, shall be
used for the matters to which they severally relate.
3. Definition. (i) In these rules, unless there is anything repugnant in the subject or
context-
“The Act' means the Provincial Insolvency Act, 1920.
“Receiver' means a Receiver appointed by the Court under section 56 (1) of the Act.
“Interim Receiver’ means a Receiver appointed by the Court under section 20 of the
Act.
“Proved debt' means the claim of a creditor so far as it has been admitted by the
Court, or by the Official Receiver empowered under section 80 (1) (b) of the Act.
(i) Unless there is anything repugnant in the context, words and expressions used in
these rules shall have the same meanings as those assigned to them in the Act, and
references to sections shall be taken to be references to sections of the Act.
4. Registers prescribed for entry of insolvency petitions and other
applications.-- (a) Every insolvency petition shall on institution be entered in Civil
Register of Miscellaneous cases (Register No. Il) in all Courts exercising insolvency
jurisdiction and shall be given a serial number in that register. If the petition results in
adjudication, the case should be entered in the Register of persons adjudicated
insolvents to be maintained in Form No. 15 attached to these rules and all entries
relating to proceedings subsequent to adjudication should be made in this Register.


--- Page 45 ---
38

(b) Miscellaneous applications under sections 4, 53, 54, and 69 of the Provincial
Insolvency Act should be entered in Civil Register No. VI (Register of Miscellaneous
Petitions) which is the proper register for entering such applications. A separate
register should be maintained in this form for insolvency cases.
5. Persons entitled to inspect proceedings and fees for inspection.-- All
insolvency proceedings may be inspected by the Receiver, the debtor, and any
creditor, who has proved, or any legal representative on their behalf at such times
and subject to the same rules as other court records (vide Volume IV, Chapter 16-
Records) provided that no fee shall be charged for inspection made by the Receiver.

NOTICES
6. Memorandum of publication in Gazette to be kept on record.-- Whenever
publication of any notice or other matter is required by the Act to be made in an
official gazette, a memorandum referring to, and giving the date of, such
advertisement shall be filed, with the record and noted in the order sheet.
7. Manner of notifying dates of hearing.-- (i) Notice of order fixing the date of the
hearing of petition under section 19 (2) may in addition to the publication thereof in
the official gazette, be also advertised in such newspaper or newspapers as the court
may direct. A copy of the notice shall also be forwarded by registered post to each
creditor, to the address given in the petition or served on the creditor in the manner
prescribed for the service of summonses, as the court thinks fit. The same procedure
shall be followed in respect of notices of the date for the consideration of the
proposal for composition or scheme of arrangement under section 38 (1).
(ii) Where the petition is by a creditor, a notice shall be served on the debtor in the
manner prescribed for the service of summonses.
8. Manner of notifying, order of adjudication and orders cancelling
adjudication.-- Notices of order of adjudication under section 30 shall be published
in the official gazette and may also be published in such newspaper or newspapers
as the Court may think fit. When the debtor is a


--- Page 46 ---
39
Government servant, a copy of the order shall be sent to the head of the office in
which he is employed.
The same procedure shall be followed in regard to notice of orders, annulling
adjudication under section 37 (2).
9. Persons on whom notices under section 33 (3) are to be served.-- The notices
to be given under section 33 (3) of the Act shall be served only on the Receiver and
on the creditors who have proved their debts and may, if the Court so direct, be
served on any or all such creditors by registered post.
10. Service of notice under section 50.-- The notice to be given by the Court under
section 50 shall be served on the creditor or his pleader, or shall be sent through the
post by registered letter.
11. Service of notice under section 64.-- The notice to be issued by the Receiver
under section 64 before the declaration of a final dividend to the persons whose
claims to be creditors have been notified, but not proved, shall be sent through the
post by registered letter.
12. Creditors to file address for service.-- (i) When the creditors appear in Court in
answer to the notices issued under section 19 (2) of the Act or appear to prove their
debts, they shall be required to give their addresses for service by post.
(ii) Period of applying for discharge should be fixed.-- Whenever an order of
adjudication is made, the Court should, at the same time, fix a date on or before
which the insolvent should apply for discharge.
(iii) Notice to creditor of application for discharge.~- When an application for
discharge is made, the Court should fix a date for hearing it and issue notices
(ordinarily by registered post) to the creditors at the addresses furnished by them.
13. Manner of notifying date of hearing of discharge applications.-- Notices of
the date of hearing of applications for discharge under section 41 (1) shall be
published in the official gazette and may also be published in such newspapers as
the Judge may direct, and copies shall be sent by registered post to all creditors,
whether they have proved or not, or served


--- Page 47 ---
40
on them in the manner prescribed for service of summons, as the Court thinks fit.
14. Proof of service by Post.-- A certificate of an officer of the Court or of the
Official Receiver or an affidavit by a Receiver that any of the notices referred to in the
preceding rule has been duly posted, accompanied by the post office receipt, shall be
sufficient evidence of such notice having been duly sent to the person to whom the
same was addressed.
15. Court's discretion to adopt any other mode of service.-- In addition to the
methods of publication prescribed in these rules, the notices issued thereunder may
be served in the discretion of the Court in such other manner as the Court may direct,
for instance, by affixing copies on the Court house or by beat of drum in the village
where the insolvent resides.
16. Notices should be issued or published a fortnight before date.-- Every notice
issued under rules 7, 8, 11 and 12 shall be published or issued at least 14 days
before the doing of the act of which warning is given in such notice.
Note:- Mode of recovery of cost of service stamps.-- Whenever notice is permitted by these
rules to be sent by registered post, it should be with acknowledgment due. Service stamps
should invariably be used and the cost thereof recovered from the party concerned or drawn
from the deposit made under paragraph 53 ibid and credited to [1230000-Law & Order
Receipts; 1231000-Justice; 1231800-Others] with full details of the recoveries entered in the
treasury challan or repayment voucher, as the case may be, the cost will also then be
deducted from expenditure under "Contract Contingencies. Postage Stamps."
RECEIVERS AND INTERIM RECEIVERS
17. Order for appointment of a receiver to be served on the debtor.-- Every
appointment of a Receiver shall be by order in writing signed by the Court. Copies of
this order, sealed with the seal of the Court, shall be served on the debtor, and
forwarded to the person appointed.
18. Security to be given by receivers.-- Every Receiver or Interim Receiver, other
than an Official Receiver, shall be required to give such security as the Court thinks
fit. (As regards security to be taken from Official Receivers, see Chapter 5 of this
Volume).


--- Page 48 ---
41
19. Schedule of creditors and all subsequent entries in it to be notified to
receivers.-- As soon as the Schedule of creditors has ben framed, a copy thereof
shall be supplied to the Receiver or interim Receiver, as the case may be, and all
subsequent entries and alterations made therein, shall be communicated to the
Receiver or the interim Receiver.
20. Remuneration of receiver. (i) A Court when fixing the remuneration of
Receiver should, as a rule, direct it to be in the nature of a commission of percentage
not exceeding 7 1/2 per cent of the amount of the dividends, of which one part should
be payable on the amount realized, after deducting any sums paid to secured
creditors out of the proceeds of their securities and the other part on the amount
distributed in dividends.
This commission is intended to cover all office expenditure including cost of
establishment, if any, to be maintained by the Receiver for the discharge of his
duties, and contingencies such as purchase of account books and forms and issue of
notices, etc., incurred by the Receiver in connection with the administration of the
Insolvents' estates.
(ii) Where a Receiver realizes the security of a secured creditor, the Court may direct
additional remuneration to be paid to him with reference to the amount of the work
which he has done and the benefit resulting to the creditors.
(iii) If a Receiver has been appointed in an insolvency proceeding in which the Court
makes an order approving a proposal under section 39, the remuneration to be paid
to the Receiver shall be fixed by the Court, and the order approving the proposal
shall make provision for payment of the remuneration and shall be subject to the
payment thereof.
(iv) When the office of an Official Receiver falls vacant on account of his death,
suspension, dismissal or proceeding on leave, a particular person shall be appointed
as ad hoc Receiver by the Court in each case under section 56 of the Provincial
Insolvency Act, the person being nominated by the High Court. The Receiver so
appointed shall draw commission and administration charges at the rates admissible
to an Official Receiver under paragraphs 12 to 21 of the revised Chapter 5-A, of this
Volume, and the salaries of the sanctioned office


--- Page 49 ---
42
establishment, rent of building occupied, the cost of stationery and postage and his
travelling allowance etc., shall be charged at the rate of 1'/, per cent.
21. Remuneration of Interim receiver.-- If a person is specially appointed an
Interim Receiver and is afterwards appointed Receiver in the case, his realizations in
both the capacities can be treated alike and the ordinary commission charged. Other
cases, in which an Interim Receiver does work, but there is no adjudication or
substantive receivership, are few, but in them if any real work is done beyond the
taking charge of such insignificant movables as the debtor produces voluntarily, it will
probably have to be done quickly and be of a definite character and if any
remuneration has to be fixed separately in those cases, it should be such sum as the
Insolvency Judge may decide on the Receiver's appointment, subject to a maximum
of one per cent of the estimated value of the property.
22. Books to be kept by the Receiver. Submission of accounts and their audit.--
The Receiver shall keep a Cash Book, a Dividend Register, and such other books as
may be required to give a correct view of his administration of the Estate, and shall
submit his accounts at such times and in such form as the Court may direct. In the
absence of any such directions, the Receiver shall submit to the Court for each
quarter, not later than the 10th day of the month next following, an account showing
all the receipts and disbursements in cases in which he is a Receiver. The Receiver's
accounts shall be audited by the ‘Director General Audit, Punjab.] The cost of the
audit shall be paid out of the estate at the rate of 11/4 percent of the total
realizations, Tand credited in the State Bank of Pakistan or National Bank of Pakistan
under the head 1200000-Receipts from Civil Administration and other Functions;
1210000-General Administration Receipts; 1212100-Fiscal Administration Audit;
1212180-Fiscal Administration Audit and Others(58).]
A receiver appointed under paragraph 20, clause (iv), above shall continue to keep
all registers and accounts in the same form and on the same system as are
prescribed for Official Receivers in Chapter 5-B ibid.
23. Transactions of Interim proceedings should be kept separate.-Receivers
should not amalgamate their transactions relating to interim proceedings with those
of Insolvent Estates.


--- Page 50 ---
43
24. Cash realized by Interim Receiver not to be mixed up with Insolvents
Estates Fund.-- The cash which is realized or collected by an Interim Receiver
should be deposited in the State Bank or National Bank or some other approved
Bank, and not mixed up with the Insolvent Estates Fund of which an account is kept
in the treasury.
25. Books to be kept by Interim Receiver.-- An Interim Receiver shall be required
to maintain only the following books and forms:-
(i) A Cash Book in Form No. 15 of Official Receivers.
(ii) A Receipt Book in Form No. 9 of Official Receivers.
(iii) A Property Register in Form No. 16 given at the end of this Chapter.
26. No audit of Interim Receiver's accounts required.-- A separate audit of interim
accounts is unnecessary because if the interim appointment leads to full receivership
after adjudication the Interim Accounts will be incorporated in the Receiver's
accounts which will then be audited as such in the usual way. If, however, the petition
for insolvency is dismissed, no audit is required because the debtor would, under the
circumstances, himself take back the estate from the Interim Receiver.
27. Proved creditor entitled to a copy of receiver's accounts.-- Any creditor who
has proved his debt may apply to the Court for a copy of the Receiver's accounts, or
any part thereof, relating to the Estate, as shown by the Cash Book up to date and
shall be entitled to such copy on payment of the charges laid down in the rules of this
Court regarding the grant of copies.
28. Direction as to safe custody of valuable securities and cash secured by
receiver and as to the investment of sums exceeding Rs.500.00.-- The Receiver
shall deposit all valuable securities and cash for safe custody with the Nazir (who
shall enter the same in the Malkhana Register to be maintained in form 23 and paste
a label thereon in form 24 as prescribed for Official Receivers in Chapter 5-B, Rules
and Orders, Volume Il) or in the State Bank of Pakistan, or National
Bank of Pakistan or any other approved Bank, as the Court may direct, and
whenever a sum exceeding Rs. 500 shall stand to the credit of any one Estate, the
Receiver shall give notice thereof to the Court;


--- Page 51 ---
44
and, unless it shall appear that a dividend is about to be shortly declared, he shall
obtain the Court's orders as to investment of the same in a suitable manner, e.g., in
securities or as a fixed deposit with a Bank, etc.
29. Duty of receiver to deliver up assets and books, etc., on being removed, or
on annulment of adjudication.-- (i) The Court may remove or discharge any
Receiver or Interim Receiver, and any Receiver or Interim Receiver so removed or
discharged shall, unless the Court otherwise orders, deliver up any assets of the
debtor in his hands and any books, accounts or other documents relating to the
debtor's property which are in his possession or under his control, to such person as
the Court may direct.
(ii) If an order of adjudication is annulled, the Receiver, if any, shall, unless the Court
otherwise orders, deliver up any assets of the debtor in his hands and any books,
accounts or other documents, relating to the debtor's property, which are in his
possession or under his control, to the debtor or to such other person as the Court
may direct.
30. Receiver shall submit an early report as to conduct of the debtor and other
matters.-- (i) Unless the Court otherwise directs, the Receiver or Interim Receiver
shall as soon as may be after his appointment, and in any case before the hearing of
the debtor's application for discharge, draw up a report upon the cause of the
debtor's insolvency, the conduct of debtor so far as it may have contributed to his
insolvency and also his conduct during the insolvency proceedings in all matters
connected with such proceedings, and in particular such report shall state specifically
whether any of the facts mentioned in each of the clauses of or subsection (1) of
section 42 exist or do not exist.
(ii) If the debtor submits a proposal under section 38 (1) of the Act, the Receiver shall
state in his report whether in his opinion the proposal is reasonable and is likely to
benefit the general body of the creditors and shall state the reasons for his opinion.
31. Receiver to be deemed an officer of the Court.-- Every Receiver or Interim
Receiver shall be deemed for the purposes of the Act and of these Rules to be an
officer of the Court.


--- Page 52 ---
45

PROOF OF DEBTS
32. Proof of debt by affidavit.-- A creditor's proof may be by an affidavit in Form No.
6 with such variations as circumstances may require.
33. Proof of wages of workmen, etc., employed by the debtor.-- In any case in
which it appears from the debtor's statement that there are numerous claims for
wages by workmen and others employed by the debtor, it shall be sufficient if one
proof for all such claims is made either by the debtor or by some other person on
behalf of all such creditors. Such proof should be in Form No. 7.
34. Provisions as to declaration of dividend, notifying its distribution and
remission and other connected matters.-- (i) A dividend should be declared in
each estate ordinarily every six months, i.e., on the Ist [October] and the Ist [April],
each year.
(ii) If sufficient funds are not available for a particular dividend in any particular estate
a report to this effect should be made to the Court for orders on these dates.
(iii) No dividend shall be distributed by a Receiver without the previous sanction of
the Court.
(iv) Notice that the distribution of a dividend has been sanctioned shall be sent by the
Receiver, or, if there is no Receiver, by the Court, to every creditor, who has proved
a debt, by registered post within one month from the date of the order sanctioning the
distribution.
(v) An order shall not be made under section 65 of the Act without giving the
Receiver an opportunity to show cause why the order should not be made.
(vi) The amount of the dividend may, at the request, expense and risk of the creditor,
be transmitted to him by post.
But if the amount is under rupees twenty, the Official Receiver may, after due notice,
remit the sum by post to creditors concerned at their expense and risk even when no
formal request has been made by them.


--- Page 53 ---
46

(vii) Where the assets in the hands of the Official Receiver are too small for
distribution as dividend, e.g., [ten rupees] or so, these sums may be treated, with the
permission of the Court in each case, as "unclaimed" by creditors and eventually
lapsed to Government, “[and deposited in the State Bank of Pakistan or National
Bank of Pakistan under the head - 1200000-Receipts from Civil Administration and
other Functions; 1210000-General Administration Receipts; 1212100-Fiscal
Administration Audit; 1212180-Fiscal Administration Audit-Others(58)].

PROCEDURE WHERE THE DEBTOR IS A FIRM
35. Mode of signing on behalf of the firm.-- Where any notice, declaration, petition
or other document requiring attestation is signed by a firm of creditors or debtors in
the firm's name, the partner signing for the firm shall also add his own signature, e.g.,
"Brown & Co., by James Green, a partner in the said firm".
36. Mode of personal service on a firm.-- Any notice or petition for which personal
service is necessary, shall be deemed to be duly served on all the members of a firm
if it is served at the principal place of business of the firm within the jurisdiction of the
Court, on any one of the partners or upon any person having at the time of service
the control or management of the partnership business there.
37. The preceding rule to apply to persons not carrying on business in their
own name.-- The provision of the last preceding rule shall, so far as the nature of the
case will admit, apply in the case of any person carrying on business within the
jurisdiction in a name or style other than his own.
38. Insolvency petition by a firm should show names of all the partners and an
affidavit that all partners concur in the filing of the petition.-- Where a firm of
debtors files an insolvency petition, the same shall contain the names in full of the
individual partners, and if such petition is signed in the firm's name the petition shall
be accompanied by an affidavit made by the partner who signs the petition showing
that all the partners concur in the filing of the same.


--- Page 54 ---
47
39. Adjudication order against a debtor firm shall operate against all individual
partners.-- An adjudication order made against a firm shall operate as if it were an
adjudication order made against each of the persons who at the date of the order are
partners in that firm.
40. Each partner shall submit a schedule of his separate affairs.-- In cases of
partnership, the debtors shall submit a schedule of their partnership affairs, and each
debtor shall submit a schedule of his separate affairs.
41. Composition with joint creditors or a set of separate creditors.-- The joint
creditors and each set of separate creditors, may severally accept composition or
schemes of arrangement. So far as circumstances will allow, a proposal accepted by
joint creditors may be approved in the prescribed manner, notwithstanding that the
proposals or proposal of some or one of the debtors made to their or his separate
creditors may not be accepted.
42. Composition with a firm. Annulment of adjudication where a composition or
scheme is approved.-- Where proposals for compositions or schemes are made by
a firm, and by the partners therein individually, the proposals made to the joint
creditors shall be considered and voted upon by them apart from every set of
separate creditors; and the proposal made to each separate set of creditors shall be
considered and voted upon by such separate set of creditors apart from all other
creditors. Such proposals may vary in character and amount. Where a composition
or scheme is approved, the adjudication order shall be annulled only so far as it
relates to the estate, the creditors of which have confirmed the composition or
scheme.
43. Disposal of assets of separate firm formed by some members of
partnership.-- If any two or more of the members of a partnership constitute a
separate and independent firm, the creditors of such last mentioned firm shall be
deemed to be a separate set of creditors, and to be on the same footing as the
separate creditors of any individual member of the firm. And when any surplus shall
arise upon the administration of the assets of such separate or independent firm, the
same shall be carried over to the separate estates of the partners in such separate
and independent firm according to their respective rights therein.


--- Page 55 ---
48

SUMMARY ADMINISTRATIONS
44. Special procedure in case of summary administration.-- When an estate is
ordered to be administered in a summary manner under section 74 of the Act the
provisions of the Act and Rules shall, subject to any special direction of the Court, be
modified as follows, namely -
(i) there shall be no advertisement of any proceedings in the local official gazette or
any newspaper;
(ii) the petition and all subsequent proceedings shall be endorsed" Summary Case".
(iii) the notice of the hearing of the petition to the creditors shall be in Form No.14;
(iv) the Court shall examine the debtor as to his affairs, but shall not be bound to call
a meeting of creditors, but the creditors shall be entitled to be heard and to cress-
examine the debtor;
(v) the appointment of a Receiver will often not be necessary, and the Court may act
under section 58 of the Act in order to reduce the cost of the proceedings. The
administration charges, however, shall be levied at the same rates as in ordinary
cases. These charges should be credited into the treasury under Head [1230000-
Law & Order Receipts; 1231000-Justice; 1231003-Justice, General Fees Fines &
Forfeitures (74)]; except those representing the cost of audit, which should be
credited under the Head [1200000-Receipts from Civil Administration and other
functions; 1210000- General Administration Receipts; 1212100- Fiscal Administration
Audit; 1212180- Fiscal Administration Audit- others (58)];
(vi) the ordinary Nazarat staff should be employed for conducting sales;
(vii) the only registers which need be kept are the Cash Book, the Dividend
Register, the Register of Property and such other


--- Page 56 ---
49
Registers as may be required to give a correct view of the administration of the
estate.
PROSECUTIONS
45. Notice shall be given to debtor before lodging a complaint.-- Before passing
an order for making a complaint of any offence referred to in section 69, the Court
shall issue a notice to the debtor calling upon him to show cause why such an order
should not be passed against him.
DISCHARGE
46. Application to be heard only after submission of creditors’ schedule and
receiver's report.-- An application for discharge shall not ordinarily be heard until
after the schedule of creditors has ben framed and the Receiver has submitted his
report (vide Rule 30). The Receiver, if he is in a position to make it and has not
already done so, shall file his report in Court not less than fourteen days before the
date fixed for the hearing of the application.
47. Proved creditors only may oppose discharge. Every creditor who has
proved shall be entitled in person or by pleader to appear at the hearing and oppose
the discharge.
48. In the matter of discharge court shall examine the debtor and may hear the
receiver, the debtor and creditors.-- At the hearing of the application the Court may
hear any evidence which may be tendered by a creditor and also any evidence which
may be tendered on behalf of the debtor and shall examine the debtor, if necessary,
for the purpose of explaining any evidence tendered and may hear the Receiver, the
debtor, in person or by pleader, and any creditor in person or by pleader.
49. Procedure where debtor fails to apply for discharge within the fixed period
or where no period has been fixed.-- Any case in which the debtor fails to apply for
his discharge within the period allowed by the Court under section 27 shall be
brought up for orders under section 43. If the Court has omitted to specify a period
under section 27(1), and the debtor has not already applied for discharge, the Court
upon receipt of the Receiver's report shall fix a period within which the debtor shall
apply for an order of discharge.


--- Page 57 ---
50
Notice of such period shall be given to the Receiver and the debtor, and if on its
expiry the debtor has not applied accordingly, the case shall be brought up for orders
under section 43.
SALE OF IMMOVABLE PROPERTY
50. Sale by Court and preparation of sale deed where no receiver appointed.-- If
no receiver is appointed and the court, in exercise of its powers under section 58 of
the Act, sells any immovable property of the insolvent, the deed of sale of the said
property shall be prepared by the purchaser at its own cost and shall be signed by
the Presiding Officer of the Court. The cost of registration (if any ) will also be borne
by the purchaser.
51. Sale shall ordinarily be by public auction.-- As a rule property should be sold
by public auction at the spot. Full particulars of the property and encumbrances, if
any, should be made known by customary methods, such as proclamation, beat of
drum, hand bills, etc. Sales in any other manner and at any other place should only
be made with the sanction of the Court.
COSTS
52. Costs upto order of adjudication shall be borne by petitioner but
subsequent costs shall be met out of the estate.-- All proceedings under the Act,
up to and including the making of an order of adjudication, shall be at the cost of the
party prosecuting the same, but when an order of adjudication has been made on the
petition of a creditor the cost of the petitioning creditor including the costs of the
publication of all notices required by the Act or Rules shall be taxed and be payable
out of the Estate.
Note:- All expenses including the expenses of any travelling done by an Interim
Receiver with the permission of the Court granted after hearing the applicant have to
be met by the party prosecuting the application according to this rule, and if these
expenses are not furnished the application for insolvency should be filed.
[53. Initial deposits by debtor to cover costs. This deposit shall cover postal
charges but no process fees.-- A person applying to be adjudicated an
insolvent shall deposit a fee of at least Rs. 200/- or such further sums, if any, as
the Court may, from time to time, direct to cover the cost of the issue of the
prescribed notices, of their publication in the Official Gazette


--- Page 58 ---
51
and of all other proceedings under the Act, up to and including the making of an
order of adjudication with the Nazir. Each such deposit shall be treated as Revenue
Deposit and entered in the Register of Receipts.
Note 1:- Process fee shall be paid in Court fee stamps.-- This deposit does not cover
process-fees,which shall be realized as usual, in Court fee stamps according to the
rules.
Note 2:- Initial deposit to cover all costs up to order of adjudication.-- This deposit is
meant not only for paying the expenses of publication of certain notices in Official
Gazette, but also to cover the cost of issue of the prescribed notices and all other
proceedings under the Act up to a certain stage. The postage for notices should not,
therefore, be recovered from the parties concerned until the deposit made under this
rule has been exhausted and there is an express order of the Court for the purpose.
Note 3:- Disposal of balance of initial deposit.-- The amount of undisbursed balances
of these deposits should be transferred to the insolvent's assets after adjudication. All
expenses incurred after the order of adjudication can be met out of these assets.]
54. Cost of a debtor about composition or scheme when to be allowed out of
estate.-- No cost incurred by a debtor in connection with an application to approve a
composition or scheme shall be allowed out of the estate if the Court refuses to
approve the composition or scheme.
55. Cases when creditors shall supply funds for administration of the estate--
repayment of small funds.-- If the assets available are not sufficient in any case for
taking proceedings necessary for the administration of the estate, the Receiver or
Interim Receiver or Official Receiver, as the case may be, may call upon the creditors
or any of them to advance the necessary funds or to indemnify him against the cost
of such proceedings. Any assets realized by such proceedings shall be applied, in
the first place, towards the repayment of such advances with interest thereon at 6 per
cent per annum.
APPOINTMENT AND PROCEDURE OF THE COMMITTEES OF INSPECTION
UNDER SECTION 67-A OF THE PROVINCIAL INSOLVENCY ACT
56. Appointment and procedure of committees of inspection.-- The following
rules have been framed with respect to the appointment and procedure of
Committees of Inspection:-


--- Page 59 ---
52
(1) Fixing date of meeting for selection of members.-- In any case in which the Court
authorises the creditors to appoint a Committee of Inspection pursuant to the
provisions of section 67-A of the Act, the Court shall, by the order of adjudication, fix
a date for the holding of a meeting of the persons qualified to vote for the purpose of
selecting the members of the Committee.
A notice mentioning the date fixed shall be put up on the Notice Boards of the court
and the Official Receiver.
(2) Number of members.-- A Committee of Inspection shall consist of not more than
five, nor less than three, persons.
(3) Committee when to meet.-- A Committee of Inspection shall meet at such time as
they shall, from time to time, appoint, and failing such appointment, at least once a
month, and the Official Receiver or any two members of the Committee may call a
meeting as and when necessary.
(4) Committee shall act only by majority.-- A committee of Inspection may act by a
majority of members present at a meeting, but shall not act unless a majority of the
Committee is present at the meeting.
(5) Mode of resignation by a member.-- Any member of the Committee may resign
his office by notice in writing signed by him and delivered to the Official Receiver.
(6) When a member vacates his office.-- If a member of a Committee becomes
insolvent or is absent from five consecutive meetings of the Committee, his office
shall thereupon become vacant.
(7) Removal of a member.-- Any member of a Committee may be removed by a
resolution at any meeting of the creditors of which seven days' notice has been given
stating the object of the meeting.
(8) Filling up a vacancy.-- On a vacancy occurring in the office of a member
of a Committee, the Official Receiver shall forthwith summon a meeting of
the creditors for the purpose of filling the


--- Page 60 ---
53
vacancy , and the meeting may, by resolution, appoint another creditor or other
person eligible as above to fill the vacancy.
(9) Committee may act notwithstanding vacancy.-- The continuing members of the
Committee of Inspection, provided there be not less than two such continuing
members, may act notwithstanding any vacancy in their body and when the number
of members of a Committee is for the time being less than five, the creditors may
increase their number so that it does not exceed five.
(10) Receiver to obtain orders of Court when he does not agree with the suggestions
of the Committee.-- When a Committee has been appointed, the Official Receiver
shall, in the administration of the property of the insolvent and in the distribution
thereof amongst his creditors, have regard to any suggestions that the Committee
may give by resolution. If the Official Receiver thinks that any suggestion of the
Committee is not in the interests of the general body of creditors, he may report the
matter to the Court , which will give such instructions as it may consider just and
necessary.
(11) The committee shall be heard before court passes order in the above case.--
The Court shall afford an opportunity to the Committee of Inspection for being heard
before orders are passed on any such report submitted by the Official Receiver.
(12) Court may call a meeting of the general body of creditors.-- The Court may, in
order to decide the matter in dispute, call a meeting of the general body of creditors
and consider their views before arriving at a conclusion.
(13) Official Receiver shall be Secretary of the Committee.-- The Official Receiver
shall ordinarily act as the Secretary of the Committee and maintain a record of its
proceedings in a bound register.
(14) Action of a member not to be vitiated by defect in his appointment. —No
defect or irregularity in the appointment or


--- Page 61 ---
54

selection of a member of the Committee of Inspection shall vitiate any act done by
him in good faith.

(15) Receiver shall allow inspection of records to members and give other
information and assistance.-- The Official Receiver shall afford all the members of the
Committee both individually and collectively, reasonable facilities to examine at his
office any of his records and registers during the working hours of the Court. The
Official Receiver shall also give the Committee and its members any information
which they require and give them every assistance and facility in the discharge of
their functions.


--- Page 62 ---
55
Forms in Insolvency Proceedings
FORM NO. 1
GENERAL TITLE

IN THE COURT OF -rcnnmsmsememmemmcmeme mmm cme emcees
Insolvency Petition NO.---===------------0f 19-------,
In the matter Of-------==-=smmsmmmmmeeme eee
Ex parte (here insert ‘the Debtor’ or'A.B. or creditor’ or “the Official Receiver’ or "the
Receiver’).

FORM NO. 2

DEBTOR'S PETITION

(Section 13)
IN THE COURT OF -rcnnmsmsememmemmcmeme mmm cme emcees
Insolvency Petition NO.---===------------0f 19-------,
(3-ereereeereereenennenn0rdinarily residing at (or "carrying on business at" or 'personally
working for gain at' or "in custody at.................") in consequence of the order of
( ®)reecesrrereeresneen being unable to pay my debts, hereby petition that | may be
adjudged an insolvent. The total amount of all pecuniary claims against me is
(9)-eeererreereenenn..@8 Set out in detail in Schedule A annexed hereunto which contains
the names and residences of all my creditors so far as


--- Page 63 ---
56

they are known to, or can be ascertained by me. The amount and particulars of all
my property are set out in Schedule B annexed hereunto together with a specification
of all my property not consisting of money and the place or places at which such
property is to be found and | hereby declare that | am willing to place all such
property at the disposal of the Court save in so far as it includes such particulars (not
being my books of account) as are exempted by law from attachment and sale in
execution of a decree.
I have not on any previous occasion filed a petition to be adjudged an insolvent or, |
set out in Schedule C particulars relating to my

petition
previous -----------to be adjudged an insolvent.

petitions

Signature.


--- Page 64 ---
57
Verification clause as in plaints.
SCHEDULE A. — (Debts, )
MCURITY
(EEE est

Column 4.— In this column corer. whether Ihe debt 1s i juifganeni-debi, moon due
| PROMISSORY Hole, morgage debt, verbal loan, balance Lor goods, security for wkiice, cic. In the

«ase of judgment-debt, stare the name of the Court and the number of he case,

Coun: S. — this coluina state the natuse of property whedher Land, house, gold ac.
od the nxure of the security, whether deposi, pledge without possesion, pledge. with
possession, morgage deposit of tie deeds, gic,

SCHEDULE B. — (Assets.) .
(1) = Movable and immovable property
i EY EE EA =
Column Ne. 9, In the remarks columm, siuie if petitioner Baomyly pan vwner of te
Property. aul. if 30. who the other owners are, and what his share in the property w.


--- Page 65 ---
58
(2) - Debts owing to petitioner.
Nave td
Hernan
Wetman
ila Log Bs \slimen] af. Sel]
Column 3 -- In this column, enter particulars as in column 4 of Schedule A
SCHEDULE ©
Former petitions for insolvency by the petitioner
Serial Date of Dute of Date and description -
No. petition. adjudication, of final order on Remarks
if any. the former petition
* If the penibion was dismissed, state the reasons for dismissal. If ihe deblor has
pervious hots ANGERS wy TROL concise particulars of his insolvency, including a
BE oT a7 lod SA AIon, Tai Pach Tidal. Wk. Wo. Me: pions


--- Page 66 ---
59
FORM NO. 3
NOTICE TO CREDITORS OF THE DATE OF HEARING
OF AN INSOLVENCY PETITION
(Section 19)
IN THE COURT OF ------sssnnemmnmnm omens
Insolvency Petition NO.---===------------0f 19-------,
Whereas A.B.-------------has applied to this Court by a petition, dated of----------19------
---to be declared an insolvent under the Provincial Insolvency Act, 1920, and your
name appears in the list of creditors filed by the aforesaid debtor, this is to give you
notice that the Court has fixed the ---------------------=sseeeeeeeeeeaday Of ---mmmmmmmmmmeen 19----
--, for the hearing of the aforesaid petition and the examination of the debtor. If you
desire to be represented in the matter, you should attended in person or by duly
instructed pleader. The particulars of the debt alleged in the petition to be due to you
are as follows:-
Judge.
FORM NO. 4
ORDER OF ADJUDICATION
(SECTION 27)
IN THE COURT OF ------sssnnemmnmnm omens
Insolvency Petition NO.---===------------0f 19-------,
Pursuant to a petition, dated---------- against (here insert name, description, and
address of debtor) and on the application of (here insert "the Official Receiver" or "the
debtor himself" or "A.B. of--------------a creditor") and on reading------------and hearing-
---------it is ordered that the debtor be and the said debtor is hereby adjudged
insolvent.
within
It is further ordered that the debtor do apply for his discharge -----------------(*).
on or before
Dated this----------day Of---------19-=-----,
Judge.
(*) Here state the period or the date on or before which the insolvent must apply for
discharge.


--- Page 67 ---
60
FORM NO. 5
ORDER APPOINTING RECEIVER.

(SECTION 56)
IN THE COURT OF -rcnnmsmsememmemmcmeme mmm cme emcees
Insolvency Petition NO.---===------------0f 19-------,
WHEREAS A.B.-----------was adjudicated an insolvent by order of this Court, dated----
----------and it appears to the Court that the appointment of a Receiver for the
property of the insolvent is necessary.
It is ordered that a receiving order be made against the insolvent and a receiving
order is hereby made against the insolvent and A.B.--------====-----------0f (Or the
Official Receiver) is hereby constituted Receiver of the property of the said insolvent.
And it is further ordered that the said Receiver (not being the Official Receiver) do
give security to the extent of-------------and that his remuneration be fixed at-------------
Dated Judge.


--- Page 68 ---
61
FORM NO. 6
PROOF OF DEBTS
General Form (Section 49)
(Title)
In the matter Of-----------NO. "=--=--=--x-- Of 19r-memmemev.
I
EEE 11
oath and say (or solemnly and sincerely affirm and declare).
was
1. That the said-----------------------=== ------------ at the date of the petition
were
is
viz., the day of 19----------------- and still ----------- justly and truly indebted to
are

me in the SUM Of R§.-=---rmwmmrmememememecece OF enema as ShOWN
by the account endorsed hereon (or the following account), viz., for which sum or any
part thereof, | say that | have not, nor hath----------------------------- or any person by-----
===mmmmmmmmmmmoo--- Order to my knowledge or belief for--------------------------- use had or
received any manner of satisfaction of security whatsoever save and except the ------
Bat (¢] (1114s
Admitted to vote for Rs.

{Swornat-------=eemeememmeeeeenaan

{day---emeeememeemmeem eee eeeeee

{before me------------vemecmeeceuee
Judge or Official Receiver

Deponent's signature.
Commissioner.


--- Page 69 ---
62
FORM NO. 7
PROOF OF DEBT OF WORKMEN
(Title)
I (a) of (b) make oath and say (or solemnly and sincerely affirm and declare):-
was
That (d)-----------------at the date of the adjudication, viz., the day oOf-----=--==----
were
is
19-----------, and still--------------justly and truly indebted to the several persons whose
are
names, addresses and descriptions appear in the schedule endorsed hereon in sums
severally set against their names in the sixth column of such schedule for wages due
to them respectively as workmen or others in (d) in respect of services rendered by
them respectively to (e) during such periods before the date of the receiving order as
are set out against their respective names in the fifth column of such schedule for
which said sums or any part thereof, | say that they have not, nor hath any of them,
had or received any manner of satisfaction or security whatsoever.
Admitted to vote for Rs. {Sworn at this day before me
Judge or Official Receiver
Deponent's signature.
Commissioner.
a. Fill in full name, address and occupation of deponent.
b. The above-named debtor or the foreman of the above-named debtor or on behalf of the workmen and others employed by the
above-named debtor.
c. "I" or "the said".
d. "My employ" or "the employ of the above-named debtor."
e. "Me" or "the above-named debtor".


--- Page 70 ---
63
FORM NO. 8.
- NOTICE TO CREDITORS OF THE DATE OF CONSIDERATION
OF A COMPOSITION OR SCHEME OR ARRANGEMENT
(Section 38),
Title}.

Take natice that the Court hay fixed the day of--—--19—-
for the consideration of a composition (or scheme of arrangement). submitted
by A.B. the debtor in the shove insolvency petition. No creditor wha has not
proved his debt before the aforesaid date will he permitted to vote on the
consideration of the above matter. If you desire 10 be represented at the above-
mentioned hearing, you should be present in person or by duly instructed
pleader with your proofs,

Judge
FORM NO. 9
FORM UNDER SECTION 38,
List af creditors for uae at meeting held for consideration of composition or scheme.
(Title)
Meeting held at ———— this «eeececedlay Of ——e 19.
There state as to vach Awl of
creditor whether be voted, admitted root.
and, if vo, whether
persanally or by pleater
prt Cle
Required number of majority.
Required value Rs.


--- Page 71 ---
64
FORM NO. 10.
FORM OF NOTICE UNDER SECTION 64.
Notice to persons claiming to be creditors of intention to declare final dividend.
(Title),
Take notice that a final dividend is intended to be declared in the above
mater, and that It you do not establish your claim the satisfaction of the
. Court on or before ie———-eudity Ol-—esm—19—or such later day as the
Court may fin. your claim will be expunged, and | shall proceed 10 make final
dividend without regard to such claim.
Dated this reseoadity Ofcom]
i GH
Recelver.
(Address)
FORM NO. 11
« ORDER ANNULLING ADJUDICATION UNDER SECTION 35.
Tide),

On the application of R.S. Of and on reading-—--———and
bearing ————it is orderod that the order of adjudication, dated— against
AB. Of be and the same is hereby annulled.

Dated this--o——-day of] Gereeee

. Judge.
|


--- Page 72 ---
65
FORM NO. 12
NOTICE TO CREDITORS OF APPLICATION FOR DISCHARGE.
(Section 41)
(Title)
Take notice that the above-named insolvent has applied to the Court for his
discharge, and that the Court has fixed the-------------day of-----------19-----at------
o'clock for hearing the application.
Dated this-----------day Of-----------19----,
Judge

Note:- On the back of this notice the provisions of section 42(1) of the Insolvency Act
V of 1920 should be printed.

FORM NO. 13.
ORDER OF DISCHARGE SUBJECT TO CONDITIONS AS TO EARNINGS, AFTER-

ACQUIRED PROPERTY AND INCOME.
(Section 41 (c))
(Title)

On the application of-------------, adjudged insolvent on the------------day of---------19----
-, and upon taking into consideration the report of the Official Receiver (or Receiver)
as to the insolvent's conduct and affairs and hearing A.B. and C.D., creditors:
It is ordered that the insolvent
(a) be discharged forthwith, or
(b) be discharged on the , or
(c) be discharged subject to the following conditions as to his future earnings, after-
acquired property and income.
After setting aside out of the insolvent's earnings, after-acquired property
and income, the yearly sum of Rs. for the support of himself
and his family the insolvent shall pay the surplus, if any (or such


--- Page 73 ---
66
portion of such surplus as the Court may determine), of such earnings, after-acquired
property and income to the Court or Official Receiver (or Receiver) for distribution
among the creditors in the insolvency. An account shall on the first day of January in
every year or within fourteen days thereafter, be filed in these proceedings by the
insolvent setting forth a statement of his receipts from earnings, after-acquired
property and income during the year immediately preceding the said date, and the
surplus payable under this order shall be paid by the insolvent into Court or to the
Official Receiver (or Receiver) within fourteen days of the filing of the said account.
Dated this-----------------day Of--=========-19-------,
Judge.
FORM NO.14.
SUMMARY ADMINISTRATION.
Section 74
(Title)
Notice to Creditors.

Take notice that on the--------------day of--------------19-----, the above-named debtor
presented a petition to this Court praying to be adjudicated an insolvent and that on
the------------------day of--------19-----, the Court being satisfied that the property of the
debtor is not likely to exceed Rs.500 in value directed that the debtor's estate be
administered in a summary manner and appointed the---------------day of------------19---
, for the further hearing of the said petition and the examination of the said debtor.
Also take notice that the Court may on the aforesaid date then and there proceed to
adjudication and distribution of the assets of the aforesaid debtor. It will be open to
you to appear and give evidence on that date. Proof of any claim you desire to make
must be lodged in the Court on or before that date.
Given under my hand and the seal of this Court, the------day of------19--.

Judge.


--- Page 74 ---
67
FORM NO. 13
REGISTER OF PERSONS ADJUDICATED INSOLVENTS,
roa tw ROUTH
Sorini| Newest | Dae Das ur Bevewer value secured | Remarks
No | iwolvent of perk fixed wang! wr ume
wbadicadon| fie mprixano detest he
| [Eg de
mich
FORM NO. 15 -- (CONCLUDED)

ABSTRACT OF RECEIVER'S REPORTS SHOWING PROGRESS OF REALIZATIONS OF
ASSETS AND DISTRIBUTION OF DIVIDENDS AND ABSTRACT OF ALL IMPORTANT
ORDERS OF THE COURT AFTER ADJUDICATION
Date Receiver's Report Ordess of the Court | Other important orders passed by
{give driel purport) on the Receiver's the Court after adjudication,

report with dates thereof


--- Page 75 ---
El Ec F
> SE © 1h
Hf —r
1} —

Hi i :
=
:
jt
1 —— ;
| — rT
1 IT :
5 cme |
J — |.
EE |


--- Page 76 ---
69
CHAPTER 5
OFFICIAL RECEIVER
PART A -- APPOINTMENT AND TERMS OF SERVICE
1. Power of Provincial Government to appoint Official Receivers.-- The
Provincial Government is empowered under section 57 of the Provincial Insolvency
Act, 1920 (V of 1920), to appoint Official Receivers for such local limits as it may
prescribe. (For general rules as regards the appointment, remuneration, etc., of
Receivers other than Official Receivers appointed under the Provincial Insolvency
Act, 1920, see The Punjab Insolvency Rules' published in Chapter 4 on 'Insolvency
Proceedings’)
2. Distinction between an Official Receiver and an ordinary Receiver. Official
Receiver may be invested with quasi-judicial powers but not a Court.-- The
distinction between an Official Receiver and an Ordinary Receiver should be noted.
An Ordinary Receiver is appointed by the Court (in each case separately) under
section 56 of the Act while an Official Receiver is appointed by the Provincial
Government under section 57. It is provided under section 57 (2) that where an
Official Receiver has been appointed he shall be the Receiver for the purpose of
every order appointing a Receiver or an Interim Receiver’ unless the Court for special
reasons otherwise directs." The Official Receiver has the same powers as an
Ordinary Receiver but is a Public Official and may in addition be invested with certain
quasi-Judicial Powers under Section 80 of the Act. It is important to add, however,
that an Official Receiver, even when invested with powers under section 80 of the
Act, is not a Court.
3. Official Receiver not to be appointed permanently.-- All first appointments of
Official Receivers shall be made on probation for one year and will be followed by
appointment for five years. No Official Receiver shall be appointed permanently but
shall always remain liable to be removed at the end of each period of five years.
4. Appointment subject to good conduct and efficiency.-- All appointments shall
be subject to good behaviour and continued efficiency.


--- Page 77 ---
70

5. Official Receiver to retire at the age of sixty.-- The appointment of an Official
Receiver shall terminate automatically on his attaining the age of sixty years.
6. No first appointment above the age of 55.-- No first appointment of a person
over the age of fifty-five shall be made.
7. Appointment to be subject to existing and future rules.-- All appointments of
Official Receivers shall be subject to the existing rules regarding remuneration,
tenure, etc., made by Government or by the High Court, and to such rules as may
hereafter be framed.
8. Vacation allowed.-- An Official Receiver will be entitled to remain on leave during
the period when the Insolvency Court is closed for the summer vacation unless, for
reasons to be recorded, the Judge of the Court otherwise directs.

| - LEAVE OF ABSENCE
9. Grant of casual leave.-- (i) It has been decided by the Provincial Government in
consultation with the Hon'ble Judges that District Judges should be allowed, subject
to a report to the High Court, to grant leave of absence to the Official Receivers in
their districts up to one month in a year. In the case of leave for longer periods, up to
three months at any one time, the sanctioning authority will be the High Court. It is
not contemplated that any Official Receiver should be given leave in excess of three
months, except in altogether unusual circumstances; but if a case of this kind does
arise, it will be reported to Government.
(ii) In the case of short term vacancies, it will nearly always be possible for local
arrangements to be made (under the orders of the Hon'ble Judges) to carry on the
work, and it will not be necessary for a substitute Official Receiver to be appointed. In
the case of long vacancies (that is vacancies exceeding three months) it has been
decided that when the Hon'ble Judges report the case to Government they will add
their views whether the appointment of a substitute Official Receiver under section 57
of the Act is necessary. If so, proceedings to make an appointment will be taken in
accordance with the procedure laid in Punjab Government letter No. 802-J-


--- Page 78 ---
71

36/,18370, dated the 4th June, 1936. Otherwise, if the Hon'ble Judges think that
satisfactory arrangements can be made without a fresh appointment under section
57, they will issue the appropriate instructions.

II - CASUAL LEAVE
(i) A maximum of two periods of casual leave each exceeding four days but not
exceeding 10 days, are admissible to an Official Receiver in a period of 12 months
commencing with the 15th April in any year with the sanction of the District Judge,
provided that no extra expense is thereby imposed on the Insolvents' Estates Fund.
Ordinarily one period of ten day will be allowed in the summer and one period of ten
days in the winter.
(ii) In addition, two periods of casual leave not exceeding four days at a time, one in
the summer and one in the winter, may be sanctioned by the Insolvency Judge.
(iii) If casual leave is not taken during any period of twelve months commencing from
the 15th April, it cannot be accumulated and taken during a subsequent 'casual
leave' year.
(iv) The privilege of casual leave must not be abused and leave must be granted
when the District Judge considers that too much latitude in the grant of leave to an
Official Receiver disturbs the arrangements of his work as Official Receiver and
Court Auctioneer, nor must the total number of days granted in the year be in excess
of thirty days.
(v) Holidays may not be prefixed or affixed to casual leave but one Friday, either at
the beginning or end of the leave, may be combined with it. All other holidays shall be
included in the period of leave taken, but such holidays will not be counted as casual
leave enjoyed. The last Thursday of each month will never be regarded as a holiday
save in May, June, July August and September, when the District and Sessions
Judge may permit it to be so observed if the state of work permits.
Casual leave may not be combined with the annual vacation of Subordinate Courts
and ordinarily casual leave will not be granted so as to end or begin less than one
week before or after the vacation.


--- Page 79 ---
72
10. Security Form, amount and reduction and verification and exemption from
stamp duty. Every Official Receiver in Punjab is required to give security of ‘Rs.
30,000.00] or in the sum fixed by the High Court in the case of a specific District for
Rs. 10,000/- in cash, Government Promissory Notes, or Stock Notes of Government
of Pakistan or ®Fidelity Bonds of such Insurance Companies as are approved by the
High Court. The mortgage of immovable property to Government will also be allowed.
Whenever an Official Receiver is in charge of more than one revenue district, he
shall furnish security to the above extent in each district separately.
The High Court may sanction reduction of the security demanded from an Official
Receiver, if it is found that the average amount realised in his district over a period of
5 years is less than Rs. [30,000.00] per annum. The reduced security shall be not
less than such average amount realised annually.
The forms, in which different kinds of security-bonds should be executed by the
Official Receivers, are printed in Part B of this Chapter.
Where securities, other than Government Promissory or stock Notes, have been or
may be accepted, the following rules should be observed for the verification of such
securities:-
(i) They should be verified through the Tehsildar.
(ii) In addition to ascertaining that the property really exists and that it is of the
assorted value, enquiries should be made as to whether there are any prior liens on
the property, and a proclamation should be issued in every case inviting claimants to
appear within one month.
(iii) Should no claimant appear within the period the fact should be noted at the foot
of the bond.
Note:- Security bonds and mortgage deeds executed by the Official Receivers under
these rules are exempt from stamp duty under exemption (e) of Article 57, Schedule |
of Stamp Act, 1889 (Il of 1899).
REMUNERATION
11. Remuneration to be paid in the shape of commission--rate of commission.--
The Official Receiver shall be entitled to charge as remuneration


--- Page 80 ---
73
for the duties to be performed by him a commission of 5 per cent (3 per cent to be
paid on realization and 2 per cent on distribution of assets) in respect of secured as
well as unsecured debts as follows:-
(a) On amounts realised from insolvent's estates.
(b) When on application in writing to the Insolvency Judge by a creditor, who holds as
security any part of the insolvent's property the official receiver has sold the property
and realized security under a written order of the Court, on the proceeds of sale.
(c) When the insolvent has compromised or settled with his creditors, on the total
sum agreed to be paid to them.
Provided that in the case of sales and compromises relating to secured property ‘[or
in the case where the amount realized exceeds Rs.3,00,000/-] the Official Receiver
shall be entitled only to such commission not exceeding 5 per cent as the District
Judge may think fit to allow according to service."
12. Commission on sale of property subject to mortgage.- In the case of
property mortgaged to a creditor, commission should be charged on the entire sale-
proceeds only if the creditor makes a written application for the realization of the
security through the Court irrespective of the fact whether the purchase money
exceeds the mortgage money or not. In cases in which such property is sold without
an application by the secured creditor, the commission should be charged on the
sale-proceeds less the amount involved by the encumbrance.
Note:- The official Receivers must not delay the disposal of property till such time as
they can induce the secured creditors to give their consent to the sale of their interest
also in the property. It may be useful, of course, to obtain this consent and so to sell
the property free of all encumbrances but the matter must not be delayed too long.
The Official Receiver is competent at all times to dispose of the equity of redemption
which in fact is all that does vest in him.
‘[13. Commission on sales of agricultural land by Collectors.— On sales of
agricultural land by Collectors in Insolvency proceedings, Official Receivers may
deduct the following amounts from the sale-proceeds received for distribution:-
(i) The amount of remuneration to be fixed by the Insolvency Judge keeping in view
the provisions of Rule 12 and the services rendered but the amount in no case shall
exceed 2 per cent of the sale-proceeds received.


--- Page 81 ---
74
(ii) The amount incurred to meet the clerical and periodical audit-charges and
contingent-expenses as certified by the Insolvency Judge.]
14. Commission on sales of land in another district.-- (i) When the property of an
insolvent is situated in a district other than that in which the adjudication took place,
the Insolvency Judge has the discretion to decide whether the Official Receiver
should sell the property himself or ask the Insolvency Judge or the Official Receiver
of the other district in which the property is situated to do so.
(ii) When the property of an insolvent is sold through the Insolvency Judge or the
Official Receiver of another district, the Official Receiver may deduct the following
from the sale-proceeds received for distribution:-
(a) A commission of 2 per cent as remuneration of the duties performed by him.
(b) A further sum not exceeding 2-1/2 per cent to meet clerical and contingent
expenses and periodical audit.
(iii) The remaining 3 percent will be credited to Government if the property is sold
through Nizarat and paid to the Official Receiver of the other district, if it is sold by
him. The credit to Government will be made under the head [1230000--Law & Order
Receipts; 1231000-Justice; 1231800-Others (75)].
‘[15. Commission on money realized by a joint receiver or Advisory
Comnmittee.-- (i) The amount of remuneration shall be fixed by the Insolvency Judge
keeping in view the provisions of Rule 12 and the services rendered but the amount
in no case shall exceed 2 per cent of the sale-proceeds received.
(ii) The amount incurred to meet the clerical and periodical audit-charges and
contingent-expenses as certified by the Insolvency Judge.
(iii) The remaining 3 per cent or after deducting the amount of remuneration
ordered to be paid to the Official Receiver the remaining amount to the extent
of five per cent of the sale proceeds will be credited to the


--- Page 82 ---
75

Government if the property is sold through Nizarat and the amount of remuneration to
be fixed by the Insolvency Judge shall be paid to the Official Receiver of the other
district, if it is sold by him. The credit to Government will be made under the head
1230000 Law & Orders Receipts; 12310000-Justice; 1231800-Others (75)].
16. Commission on infructuous sales.~ Full administration charges Tactually
incurred and as certified by the Insolvency Judge to the extent] will be allowed to the
Official Receiver in sales which are set aside, the commission being paid by the
person at whose instance and for whose benefit the sale is set aside.
Administration charges will, however, not be allowed if a sale is set aside on account
of any illegality or material irregularity committed by the Official Receiver or his staff
in proclaiming or conducting the sale.
17. Commission on money realised through Nazir.-- The Official Receiver is
entitled to one-half of the usual commission on moneys received by him from the
Nazir on account of execution of sales held through a Court before the order of
adjudication was passed. The audit fee and office charges shall, however, be levied
at full rates.
18. Office establishment charges. The Official Receiver shall also be entitled to
deduct from realisations, subject to the conditions laid down in rule 12 above, a
further sum not exceeding 1-1/4 per cent as the District or the Insolvency Judge may
direct by order in writing in order to meet the following charges:-
(a) The salaries of such office establishment as the High Court may sanction.
(b) The rent of such buildings as the High Court may permit to be hired for office or
ware-housing purposes.
(c) Stationery, postage and other office contingent charges within such limits as the
Court may allow.

ESTABLISHMENT
19. Establishment scale of salaries to be fixed by High Court.—- The
establishment of Official Receivers shall be appointed by them on their own


--- Page 83 ---
76

responsibility but the scale of salaries to be paid to such establishment must be
sanctioned by the High Court.
20. Power of High Court to demand removal of any member of the
establishment.-- The Insolvency Judge shall have the power to order the removal of
any particular person employed by an Official Receiver on his establishment and to
direct the Official Receiver to appoint another suitable person in his place. On the
application of the Official Receiver the District Judge may set aside or modify any
such order.
21. Accommodation in Court building to be provided on rent.-- Where
accommodation is available, a room should be provided for the Official Receiver in
the Kachery building, rent as assessed by the Public Works Department, being
recovered from him out of his Establishment Fund, and credited to Government
under the head “[1240000-Community Services Receipts; 1241000-Works; 1241100-
Buildings; 1241110-Building; rent (82)].

TRAVELLING ALLOWANCE
22. Grant of travelling allowance.-- Official Receiver may, on previous sanction in
writing granted in each case by the Insolvency Judge, charge against 1-1/4 percent
office charges fund actual travelling expenses incurred by them on journeys
undertaken in the interests of insolvency work in general. When the travelling is done
in the interests of any particular estate or estates the actual travelling expenses
should be debited to the particular estate concerned instead of to the Office or
Establishment Fund.
‘[23. Definition of "actual travelling allowance". Daily allowance not
permissible.~- The term "actual travelling expenses" should be interpreted as
defined in rule 2.4 of the Civil Services Rules (Punjab), Volume | Part | read with
Travelling Allowance Rules notified vide notification No. FD/Accounts/OSD/498 dated
10.2.1976. No daily allowance will be admissible to the Official Receiver.]
24. Journeys to be performed by cheapest route.-- The journeys must be
performed by the cheapest route.
25. Grant of travelling allowance to clerks.~- Clerks and peons to Official
Receivers with the sanction of High Court, may be paid the actual


--- Page 84 ---
77
travelling expenses which must not exceed those admissible to Government servants
of similar status, incurred by them for journeys performed with the previous sanction
of the Insolvency Judge, in the discharge of their duties.
POSTAGE AND STATIONERY
26. Postage and stationery to be met out of office fund.-- It should be noted that
all expenditure relating to Insolvent Estates on account of postage should be met out
of the 1-1/4 percent Office Establishment Fund and not from the estates concerned.
The cost of the stationery required for use in connection with the insolvents estates
will be met from Office Charges Fund. An account of such stationery shall be
maintained in Form No.21.
AUDIT
27. Cost of audit to be met out of estate.-- In order to meet the cost of audit of the
Insolvents Estates by Government, the Insolvency Judge shall deduct from
realisations by Official Receivers and shall credit to Government in the manner
indicated in rule 7 of Part B of this Chapter a further sum which has been fixed
provisionally as 1-1/4 per cent on realisations subject to the conditions laid down in
rule 12.


--- Page 85 ---
78

PART B -- ACCOUNTS
The following rules have been made by the High Court with the previous sanction of
Government under section 79 of the Provincial Insolvency Act, 1920, for the upkeep
of the Official Receivers' Accounts in the Punjab:-
‘[1. Sums realized shall be deposited in treasury in the name of the Insolvency
Judge.-- All sums realized from the insolvent estates shall be credited in the State
Bank of Pakistan or the National Bank of Pakistan under the head 1230000-Law and
Order Receipts; 1231007-Justice Receipts of the Official Receiver; without delay in
the name of the District Judge or the Insolvency Judge to be styled as "Insolvent
Estates Fund" for recording the transactions of Insolvent Estates dealt with by the
Official Receiver; they shall not be deposited in private banks.
Note:- The Accountant-General has ruled that there is no audit objection to the sub-
treasuries being permitted to accept money presented for credit into a Personal
Ledger Account of the Insolvent Estates Fund of any particular district. This enables
the Official Receiver to deposit the sale-proceeds in the sub-treasury nearest to the
place where an auction may have been held.
2. Sums above Rs. 5000 shall be deposited direct in the treasury by the
persons concerned.-- All amounts above Rs.5000/- must be deposited directly by
the concerned person direct in the State Bank of Pakistan or in the National Bank of
Pakistan. The necessary challan shall be prepared in triplicate, on the prescribed
form, by the Official Receiver. The treasury challan alongwith the money shall be
presented by the depositor at the counter of the Bank, who after receipt of money
shall return two copies of the treasury challan, duly signed and stamped as a token of
receipt money to the depositor, retaining the 3rd copy with the bank for record. The
depositor shall then be required to hand over one copy of the treasury challan to the
Official Receiver for action and record:
Provided that the provisions of this rule shall not apply to the Official Receiver in the
case of money paid at auctions by himself.


--- Page 86 ---
79
3. Amount realised to be deposited by the Official Receiver by the next
morning. Receipt to be given to the depositor.-- The amount received each day
by the Official Receiver shall be deposited in the State Bank of Pakistan or in the
National Bank of Pakistan working as agent on behalf of State Bank of Pakistan on
the same day of its receipt or at the most on the morning of next working day. All
such remittances to the Bank should be accompanied by a treasury challan in the
prescribed form in triplicate to be prepared by the Official Receiver. The Treasury
challan alongwith the money shall be presented to the Bank either by the Official
Receiver himself or his nominated representative from amongst his office
establishment. On receipt of money with challan in triplicate the Bank will return two
copies of the challan duly signed and stamped to the official representative, retaining
the third one with it for record. One of the other two copies will be retained by the
Official Receiver for filing in a Guard File while the second copy shall be transmitted
to the District Accounts Officers/Treasury Officer as the case may be, for further
action in his office. The pass Books will be supplied by the District Accounts
Officer/Treasury Officer free of cost. The Official Receiver shall then prepare a
receipt in foil and counter foil for the money received by him from each depositor, the
foil being issued to the depositor as a receipt for the money deposited.]
4. Payment shall be by cheques.-- All payments from the Treasury shall be made
by means of cheques signed by the District Judge or Insolvency Judge.
Note. “"[Omitted].
5. Remuneration of Receiver payable by cheque.-- At the close of each month the
amount available for the remuneration of the Official Receiver shall be drawn from
the Treasury by the means of a cheque on presentation of a regular bill by the Official
Receiver through the District Judge or Insolvency Judge.
6. Office and other charges and payment to creditors payable by cheques.--
Office charges, amounts payable to creditors and miscellaneous charges shall
similarly be drawn by cheques on presentation of regular bills by the Official Receiver
through the District Judge or Insolvency Judge.


--- Page 87 ---
80
7. Audit expenses to be credited monthly in the treasury as a distinct item.-- At
the close of each month the amount at credit of the audit expenses account shall be
drawn from the Treasury by the District Judge or Insolvency Judge and credited to
Government by transfer as a distinct item in the cash account. The Treasury Officer
will intimate the amount so drawn to the Official Receiver at the close of each month.
‘[8. Disposal of money unclaimed by creditors.-- Money unclaimed by creditors
should not be kept in deposit indefinitely but should be dealt with in accordance with
the provisions of Article 127 of Account Code Volume Il. Rule 12.7 of the Punjab
Financial Rules deals with lapsed deposits, which is reproduced below:--
"12.7. Deposits not exceeding five rupees unclaimed for one whole account year,
balances not exceeding five rupees of deposits partly repaid during the year then
closing, and all balances, unclaimed for more than three complete account years will,
at the close of June in each year, be credited to Government by means of transfer
entries in the Accountant-General's office. See also Article 127 of Account Code,
Volume II.
Exception_____All items on account of Sheriffs’ Petty Accounts irrespective of their
amounts will remain current for three complete account years and lapse to
Government only on the expiry of that period. The Presiding Officers of the Court
concerned will certify on the statements showing the amount which should lapse to
Government on the expiry of three years, that all such amounts have been included
in the statements.
Note 1. The total of the list referred to in Article 127 of Account Code, Volume II,
should be deducted in the plus and minus memorandum from balance shown at
credit of the particular class of deposits, the list itself, signed by the district officer,
being forwarded to the Accountant-General. This duty may be delegated by the
district officer, an officer of the district not being the Treasury Officer.


--- Page 88 ---
81
Note 2. The Treasury Officer should, in addition to the list required by Article 127 of
Account Code, Volume II, prepare by the 31st December each year a list of deposits
exceeding Rs.100 which have been in deposit for over a month, and should send to
the Collector or other Government servant concerned a suitable extract from the list,
so that it may be considered whether any notice in addition to the one referred to in
the note below Rule 12.8 should issue to the payee."
Article 127 Account Code is reproduced below:
"127. Immediately after 30th June each year, a list of deposits or balances of that
year which lapse under the rules of Government, should also be submitted to the
Accountant General in Form T.A. 49. The list should be signed by the Judge.
For this purpose, the registers of deposits should be taken up early in June and an
extract made on ruled paper of those of each class which will, in ordinary course,
whether from age or pettiness, lapse at the end of the month. This list should then be
reviewed by the Judge, and any item which in his opinion should not be so dealt with
should be struck out and at the same time (if it be an item lapsing from age) entered
on the first page of the Clearance Registers (vide Article 125) for that class, full detail
of the reasons why it is not to lapse being given in a covering memorandum.
Similarly, if any item is repaid in the course of the month, it should be struck out of
this list at the same time as the payment is entered in registers of receipt and
repayment. On 30th June, each of these lists should be checked again with the
registers of receipts, in which the items pertaining to the list should be marked off as
having lapsed and been credited to Government on 30th June.
Note: In preparing the lapsed statement the items should be entered in chronological
order and separate totals should be given for deposits relating to different years."


--- Page 89 ---
82
Rule 4.130, 4.140 and 4.58 of the Subsidiary Treasury Rules deal with repayment of
lapsed deposit which are reproduced below:---
"4.130. Deposits which have lapsed and so have been credited to Government
cannot be repaid without the sanction of the Accountant-General;
The application for sanction will be made in Form STR 42. There must be separate
application for deposits repayable to each person, and it will be used as the voucher
on which the payment is to be made and submitted to the Accountant-General with
the List of Payments in which it is charged.
4.140. For the repayment of deposits see rule 4.58 under the section "Refund of
Revenue".
4.58. The following procedure should be observed in the payment of refund of
revenue credited:---
(1) Amount of less then Re. 1 due for the refund, shall not be refunded except when
such amount has to be refunded (under an order by a Court of Law). Where several
amounts each less than Re. 1 are refundable to a person in a refund bill, the claim
will be admitted if total of such amounts exceeds Re. 1 at a time.
(2) Amounts of Re. 1/- and over but not exceeding Rs.100 may be sent to the
concerned payee by postal money order subject to following conditions:---
(i) Instructions to this effect have been given in the refund order by the competent
sanctioning authority.
(ii) Clear and definite address of the payee has been given in the refund order for
purpose of sending money order to him.
(iii) Money order fee shall be deducted from the amount of the refund bill.
(iv) Money order shall not be sent where more than one payees are involved.


--- Page 90 ---
83
(v) The Money order will be sent by the Treasury at risk and responsibility of the
competent authority instructing for payment by money order. In case of non-delivery
of money order on any ground the money order commission shall be debited by the
Treasury Office to the Contigencies of such officer issuing refund order. The
undelivered money order will be made voucher of adjustment of the charges
involved. The refund order will be returned to the concerned authority with necessary
note regarding non-delivery of money order and debit of charges to his office
contingencies.
(vi) when a money order is issued, the purpose of remittance should be briefly stated
on the acknowledgment portions of the money order form in continuation of printed
entry over there viz. Received the sum specified above one.
(vii) The amount of money order should not be remitted in cash to the post office. The
Treasury Officer will send a money order form duly filled in, together with a certificate
that the amount involved and the money order fee thereon have been credited to the
post office in the Treasury Accounts by contra transfer. The post office will accept the
money orders on the authority of the Treasury Officer's certificate.
(viii) On receipt of the money order acknowledgment duly signed by the payee, it
should be attached to the usual receipt in form S.T.R. 34 in which the full amount of
the refund and deductions made therefrom on account of the money order fee should
be clearly shown. The Accountant-General will accept such voucher with the money
order acknowledgment as valid receipt for the full amount of the refund entered
therein.
3. When the amount of refund involved exceeds Rs.100 the competent sanctioning
authority shall issue to the payee a refund order and to the Treasury Officer directly
an advice in respect of having issued such refund order to the payee specified in
such advice. The payee will then appear in person at the Treasury and


--- Page 91 ---
84
produce the said refund order for receiving the payment. The Treasury Office after
proper personal identification of the payee and having exercised checks prescribed in
various rules, will pass the bill for payment at the Bank to the payee who may then
receive the payment personally or his duly authorised agent or bankers.]
9. Index Register to be kept.-- An Index Register giving reference to pages of the
several registers in which the transactions of insolvent estates are recorded from
time to time should be kept in Form No. 1 in which the names of insolvents should be
entered in chronological order. An alphabetical index giving reference to the pages of
the register should be maintained in the beginning for facility of reference.
10. Assets and liabilities of the debtor to be entered in registers specified.--
When an order of adjudication is passed, the assets and liabilities of the insolvent, as
shown in the petition or otherwise known, should be brought on to the registers noted
below:-
No. 2. -- Register of immovable property.
No. 3. -- Register of movable property.
No. 4. -- Register of debts due to insolvents.
No. 5. -- Register of debts due from insolvents.
11. Insolvents Accounts books and other documents to be entered in a special
register.-- Account books, title-deeds, etc., taken possession of by the Official
Receiver should be entered in a register to be kept in Form 6.
12. Details of disposal of property to be entered in registers specified.-- When
any property is disposed of by sale or in any other manner, the details of the disposal
should be entered in the appropriate columns of the above registers.
13. Entry of proved debts in registers.-- Debts proved from time to time should be
recorded in columns 6 to 10 of Register No. 5.
14. Demand and Collection register to watch recovery of rents and
unrecovered balances.-- Rents and other income which may accrue from


--- Page 92 ---
85
any property as well as the unrecovered balance due, if any, on account of its sale-
proceeds, when sold, should be watched by means of a Demand and Collection
Register to be kept in form No.7, in columns 1 to 8 of which the demands should be
posted as they occur. When a payment is received on account of any such demand
the columns and the money should then be brought to account in the cash book in
the usual way.
The Demand and Collection Register shall be balanced and closed at the end of
each year and the outstanding balance struck, shown in column 13 and carried
forward to the next year's register and a certificate to this effect furnished by the
Official Receiver.
15. Bids of sale to be recorded in sale list (register).-- When a property is sold by
public auction the bids should be recorded in a register or sale list to be kept in Form
No. 8.
Note:- The intermediate bids for movable property other than livestock likely to fetch
not more than Rs. 1100] need not, however, be recorded in detail in this register.
16. Receiver to issue receipts for sums received.-- Any sum received by the
Official Receiver should be acknowledged on a receipt in Form No. 9 (foil and
counter foil), the foil of which should be handed over to the person paying the money
and the counterfoil retained for audit purposes.
17. Receipt book, Number of forms, etc.-- The receipt books should have an equal
number of forms and bear the printed book and serial numbers.-
Note 1. Receipt need not issue on sale of movable goods.-- No receipt need be
issued ordinarily in cases of movable goods of insolvents sold by public auction
unless one is especially desired by the purchaser. The sale list mentioned in Rule 15
above shall be considered as sufficient ordinarily for audit purposes, provided it is
signed or thumb-impressed by each and every purchaser against the article or
articles sold to him and attested by the Official Receiver and insolvents concerned.


--- Page 93 ---
86
Note 2. Only printed prescribed receipt forms to be used.-- All receipt must be issued
invariably on the printed forms prescribed by these rules. The practice of issuing
“Kacha' or manuscript receipts on plain paper is dangerous and must never be
resorted to.
Note 3. One printed receipt to be prepared for all amounts received by money order
during the day. Money order coupons to be retained for audit.-- In order to avoid any
risk of defalcation the Official Receiver must prepare a receipt in the prescribed form
for all the amounts received by him by money order. There is, however, no need of
sending the foils to the different payees as each of them gets the postal
acknowledgment. The Official Receiver can prepare one consolidated receipt for all
the amounts received by money order during the day and attach the foil of this
receipt to the money order coupons to show that the money has been accounted for
in the cash book and credited to the Insolvents Estates Fund. The money order
coupons should be retained for audit purposes.
Note 4. Printed receipts to be issued for sums received from Court.-- Receipts must
be issued for amounts received by the Official Receiver from the Insolvency Court
itself, e.g., on account of unspent balance of the initial deposit received under Rule
53, Chapter 4-B., Rules and Orders, Volume II.
Note 5. Number of forms of receipt books to be certified before use.-- All receipt
books should be counted and a certificate to the effect that the book contains so
many pages recorded on the first page under the signatures of the Official Receiver
before they are actually brought into use.
Note 6. Date of receipt should be noted on money order coupons.-- The dates of
receipt of money should be endorsed by the Official Receiver on the money order
coupons.


--- Page 94 ---
87
Note 7. Receipts for sums in excess of Rs.20 to be stamped.-- Receipts issued by
Official Receivers for sums in excess of Rs. 20 shall be duly stamped.
18. Salaries of establishment, pay sheets and acquittance rolls.-- The salaries of
such office establishment of the Official Receiver as may be sanctioned by the High
Court, should be drawn on a pay sheet, Form No.10. The Official Receiver is
personally responsible for every salary drawn on a bill signed by him until he has
paid it to the person entitled to receive it, and has had the column of "acquittance of
payee" signed and stamped, if necessary. If the payee does not present himself
before the end of the month, the amount drawn for him should be refunded by short
drawl in the next bill. His salary can be drawn anew, when he presents himself to
receive it.
19. Contingent charges-how to be drawn.-- Contingent expenditure includes all
charges other than those of establishment. All contingent charges should be drawn
on a bill in Form No.11.
20. Permanent advance to receiver.-- The Official Receiver may be allowed a
permanent advance of such sum as may be fixed by the Insolvency Court from time
to time to meet expenses., for which, in the opinion of the Official Receiver, the
money cannot conveniently be otherwise obtained.
21. Permanent advance not to be spent without sanction of the Court.-- The
Official Receiver may incur such expenditure out of his permanent advance without
obtaining the previous sanction of the Insolvency Court, provided that a limit of ‘Rs.
100] in the case of each item of expenditure shall not be exceeded, except in the
case of purchase of stationery, where such limit shall be ‘[Rs. 50]. When it is
necessary to exceed such limits, the previous sanction of the Court shall be obtained.
22. Permanent advance account to be kept.-- The Official Receiver should keep a
permanent advance account in Form No. 12 in columns 1 to 6 of which should be
entered the items of expenditure as they occur.
23. Permanent advance -- how to be recouped.-- When the cash in hand is
running low and in any case on the last working day of each month, the permanent
advance should be recouped as follows:-


--- Page 95 ---
88
A line should be ruled across the page of the permanent advance account and the
totals debitable to each estate or other head of account should be posted in a
contingent bill in form No.11. The Bill supported by vouchers and signed by the
Official Receiver should then be laid before the Court for payment.
24. Entry of receipt by cheque to be made in books.-- When a cheque for
payment is received, the details should be entered in the cash book and the amount
drawn classified in the various ledger accounts concerned.
25. Annual certificate of permanent advance.-- On the Ist [July] of each year the
Official Receiver should submit to the Insolvency Judge a certificate to the effect that
the permanent advance is held by him, and that he is responsible for it. The
Insolvency Judge will preserve these certificates in his office.
26. Stamps -- Account to be kept in a stamp register. Private stamps to be
used-expenditure to be met out of permanent advance.-- Stamps and postage
charges should ordinarily be met from the permanent advance but in order to enable
a check to be kept upon the number of stamps expended and debited to the head
"Office Charges" a stamp register should be maintained in Form No.13.
Note:- Private stamps should be used in correspondence in connection with
insolvency accounts.
27. Administration charges to be recorded in a specified register and drawn on
a contingent bill.-- Soon after the close of a month the administration charges to be
drawn from the estates of insolvents should be calculated and recorded in a register
to be kept in Form No.14.
The totals of columns 7, 8 and 9 should then be abstracted in a contingent bill and
laid before the Court for order of payment which should be recorded in the following
manner:-
1. Pay Rs.--------- in cash(being the total of column 7) ;
2. Rs.-------—---by transfer credit to Government (being the amount of audit fees
shown in column 8);


--- Page 96 ---
89
3. Rs.----------by transfer credit to head "Office Charges" (being the amount shown in
column 9).
Note:- All bills presented by the Official Receiver for payment shall be checked by
the Superintendent of Court or Reader to the District Judge or Reader to Insolvency
Judge, and cheques prepared after payment order has ben recorded on the bills.
28. Separate cheques to be drawn for receiver's commission and audit
expenses. Separate cheques will then be drawn in favour of the Official Receiver
and the Treasury Officer. The former will be on account of commission fee and the
latter on account of the audit fee to be credited to Government. It should be made
payable to "Government for credit as audit fee."
29. Mode of entry of the bill in cash book.-- The whole amount of the bill should
then be shown on the expenditure side of the cash book and that representing” Office
Charges" should be shown by a per contra entry on the receipt side.
30. Adjustment to be made where administration charges are levied on total
sum agreed to be paid in cases of compromise or settlement.-- An Official
Receiver is entitled to draw administration charges on the total sum agreed to be
paid by an insolvent to his creditors by compromise or settlement. Any administration
charges drawn in previous month on account of such estates should be adjusted
against the sum finally to be drawn on this account. Any amount received in cash as
administration charges in such cases, should first be accounted for in the cash book
and then drawn in the usual way. In such cases the amount agreed on in the
compromise should be shown in column No. 4 of register No. 14.
31. Entries in cash book to be made by receiver in his own hand.-- The cash
book entries should ordinarily be made by the Official Receiver himself. But when the
Official Receiver is away from the station or if it is not possible for him to write the
cash book personally without detriment to his other duties the work of making the
entries in the cash book may be entrusted, on the responsibility of the Official
Receiver, to his clerk, provided the Official Receiver initials each entry in the cash
book in token of having checked it.


--- Page 97 ---
90
32. Payment to secured creditors not to be held over till dividend is declared.
Entry of payment.-- Amounts payable to secured creditors should, after deducting
the administration charges, be paid as soon as they are claimed. Such payments
need not be held over till a dividend is declared. The number, date and amount of the
cheques drawn for such payments should be noted in the remarks column or register
No. 5 against the entry concerned.
Note:- Crediting of administration charges on sales where secured creditor is himself
purchaser.-- When the purchaser of any property held under security is the secured
creditor himself he may retain the amount of his secured debt less administration
charges and tender for credit only the amount of administration charges and the
difference between the sale-proceeds and the secured debt. This difference should
be accounted for in the ordinary way. The amount of administration charges on such
secured debts should also be brought to account in the cash book and then drawn in
the usual way. In such cases also columns 4 and 5 of Register No. 14 will remain
blank while the amount of secured debt should be shown in column No. 6 of the
register.
If the property held under security has been sold on a written application of the
creditor, the administration charges shall be credited into the Treasury by the
purchaser (if he is the secured creditor) irrespective of the fact that the sale price of
the security is less than the debt, and an intimation sent to the Official Receiver that
this has been done.
33. Annual certificate of amounts credited to Government for audit charges.—-
The Official Receiver shall early in [July] each year, forward to the [The Director
General Audit, Punjab], a statement certified by him showing all amounts credited to
Government on account of audit charges in the preceding financial year.
34. Moneys pertaining to Insolvent Estates Fund should not be kept apart from
the general balance.-- Moneys pertaining to Insolvent Estates Fund with the
exception of authorised advances should not be kept apart from the general balance
at the credit of the fund, but should at once be credited to


--- Page 98 ---
91
the appropriate head of account, the adjustment of such an advance to be watched
through the Demand and Collection Register.
35. Surplus available on the office fund may be invested in Government
securities. If and when there is an appreciable amount to spare in the Office or
Establishment Fund the surplus available may be invested in Government Securities
with the previous sanction of the High Court and an account maintained in Form No.
22.
36. All receipts for money should be duly accounted for.-- When any money is
received the Official Receiver should bring the amount to account in the cash book
kept in Form 15 and sign a receipt in Form No. 9 for it, the foil of which he should
give to the person paying the money.
37. Mode of entry in cash books of remittances to treasury.-- Money remitted to
the [Bank] in accordance with the procedure laid down in Rule 3 should be entered
in columns 8 and 9 of the cash book under the initials of the Official Receiver.
38. Payment on a bill should be by a cheque.- After an order for payment has
been passed on a bill, a cheque should be drawn in the name of the actual payee
and the necessary entry made in the cash book. The bill should then be stamped
"Paid by cheque No.-----------" and filed for purposes of audit.
39. Comparison of cash book with Treasury Pass Book.-- The cash book should
be totalled and balanced at the end of each month and signed by the Official
Receiver. It should at the same time be compared and agreed with the Treasury
Pass Book in the manner prescribed in rule 56 below and any differences should be
explained and accounted for in a foot-note in the following manner:--
Balance as per Pass Book ... Rs.
Add amount of permanent advance ... Rs.
Money received too late for remittance to treasury ... Rs.
Total ... Rs.


--- Page 99 ---
92
Deduct--
Outstanding cheques as per details below ..
Balance as per cash book .. ..
Cheques outstanding on .. ..
No................dated..........amount..............
40. Closing balance in cash book must agree with the total of closing balances
of ledger accounts.-- The closing balance in cash must agree with the total of
closing balance shown in the various ledger accounts. In order to ascertain that they
agree with each other, the closing balances in the various ledger accounts should be
abstracted in a register to be kept in Form 16.
Note:- This register, may, however, be dispensed with in places where the number of
ledger does not exceed 25. In places where the register is dispensed with, the
closing balance in the various ledgers should be shown at the foot of the cash book
for facility of comparison.
41. Ledger accounts form, different heads of account, monthly balances,
posting of cash book entries.-- For the purposes of classifying the income and
expenditure posted in the cash book, a ledger account should be maintained in Form
17.
Several pages of the ledger should be set apart for each estate and for the heads of
account, viz., "Office Charges" and "Deposits". The ledger accounts should be
balanced monthly. Every receipt and disbursement shown in the cash book should
be posted in the ledger concerned on the date of transaction.
42. Cheque books-how obtained and kept.-- Cheque books are obtainable direct
from the Treasury Officer on payment, the cost being met from office charges. Every
book should be kept under lock and key of the Insolvency Judge.
43. Cheques to be counted before use.-- When a cheque book is received the
drawing officer should cause the cheques to be counted and a note to be recorded
on the back of each cheque book, that this cheque book contains -------cheques.


--- Page 100 ---
93
44. Cheque book-how to be dealt with when drawing officer relinquishes
charge.-- When the drawing officer is relieved of his office he should take a receipt
for the correct number of cheques made over to the relieving officer, a specimen of
whose signature should be forwarded to the treasury concerned by the relieved
officer.
45. Drawing officer responsible for safe custody of cheque books.-- The
drawing officer should be personally responsible for the safe custody of the cheque
books.
46. Cheque to be signed only when required for immediate delivery.-- No
cheques should be signed unless required for delivery without delay to the person to
whom the money is to be paid.
47. Directions for filling in cheques.-- When a cheque is drawn an amount a little
in excess of the sum for which the cheque is drawn should be written across it, and
its counterfoil, in red ink against an entry of “Under Rupees' as a preventive against
fraud.
48. Cheques remain current for 3 months.-- Cheques issued remain current for
three months from the date of issue.
49. Undelivered cheques to remain in personal custody of Receiver.-- If for any
special reason a signed cheque is not immediately delivered to the payee it should
remain in the personal custody of the Official Receiver until it is delivered to the
person for whom it was prepared and a receipt obtained.
50. Redating cheques not encashed within 3 months.-- When a signed cheque
delivered to a person for whom it is drawn is not presented for encashment at the
treasury within the prescribed time, it may be validated at the request of the payee.
The alteration of date should be initialled by the drawing officer, a note of the fact of
redating being entered in the cash book against the original transaction and upon
counterfoil of the cheque itself. The alteration will in no way affect the accounts and
no further entries shall be made.
51. Disposal of undelivered cheques or money orders returned.-- When a signed
cheque (vide rule 49) is not delivered to the person in whose favour it is drawn within
the period the cheque is current, it should be cancelled


--- Page 101 ---
94
under the initials of the District or Insolvency Judge and the amount thereof should
be entered in the cash book on the day of cancellation as a receipt under the head
‘Deposit’ and the amount should at the same time be entered in the appropriate
column of the Deposit Register in Form 18.
Note:- The same procedure should be followed when any money orders addressed
to a creditor come back as ‘returned’ or ‘refused’ for any reason. The amount should
be entered in the cash book as a receipt under the head “Deposit' and at the same
time entered in the appropriate columns of the Deposit register.
52. Disposal of cancelled cheques.-- Cancelled cheques should be carefully
retained until the accounts for the period to which they relate have been audited.
They should then be destroyed by or in the presence of the audit officer, who should
certify upon the counter-foil that the cheque has been so destroyed and the amount
thereof transferred to “Deposit Account’.
53. Entries in treasury pass book to be made only by the treasury.-- The Official
Receiver should have a treasury pass book which is obtainable free of cost from the
treasury. No entry or mark of any kind should be made in the pass book by any
official of the Official Receiver's establishment. All entries in the pass book should be
made in the treasury only.
54. Treasury pass book to be kept in personal custody of the Receiver.-- The
pass book should be kept under lock and key in the personal custody of the Official
Receiver.
55. Pass book to be sent to treasury from time to time to be written up monthly
total and balances.-- All sums paid into the treasury for credit to Insolvents Estates
Fund, and all payments made on cheques should be shown in the pass book which
should be periodically sent to the treasury to be written up. At the close of each
month the entries on each side of the pass book should be totalled and a balance
struck under the signatures of the Treasury Officer.
56. Comparison of pass book with the cash book.-- At the end of each month the
receipts and expenditure shown in the pass book should be


--- Page 102 ---
95
checked item by item with the cash book and cheques outstanding should be noted
in detail at the foot of the cash book in accordance with Rule 39.
If any delivered cheque appears to be outstanding for more than three months from
the date of issue and has not been re-dated under rule 50, it should be cancelled in
the manner laid down in Rule 51 and the amount thereof transferred to the Deposit
account.
57. Special account register for cancelled cheques.-- The necessary particulars
of the amounts transferred to "Deposit Account" under rules 51 and 56 should be
posted in a Deposit Register to be kept in Form No. 18.
58. Mode of drawing deposits.~- Deposits, when claimed, will be drawn on
contingent bill, Form 11, and disbursed in the ordinary way.
59. Outstanding deposits to be carried into next year's register.-- Deposits
outstanding at the end of a year will be carried into the next year's register, in the first
two columns of which should be shown the date of original credit and the annual
number originally assigned to the deposit.
60. Disposal of deposits not claimed within one account year.-- Deposits not
claimed within one account year should be drawn on a contingent bill and the money
remitted to the Government Treasury for transfer credit under the head [1200000-
Receipts from Civil Administration and other Functions; 1230000-Law & Order
Receipts; 1231000-Justice; 1231001 Justice-Sale Proceeds and Escheated
Property.]
Note 1:- In addition to individual accounts of each deposit to be kept in Form 18 the
daily total of the receipt and expenditure on account of above deposits should be
posted in the ledger account, Form No. 17 in which a few pages should be set apart
for the purpose of showing deposit transactions.
Note 2:- The deposits mentioned in this rule which have remained unclaimed for at
least one year should be lapsed at the close of [June] in each year.
61. Amount of dividend declared to be drawn on contingent bill and disbursed
by cheques. (i) The amount declared to be paid as dividend shall be drawn
on a contingent bill in Form 11. Details of names and amounts


--- Page 103 ---
96
payable to each person shall be shown before the bill is presented to the Court for
order of payment. The requisite particulars shall at the same time be posted in the
Dividend Register to be kept in Form 19.
(ii) After the order of payment has been made, the Official Receiver shall forthwith
issue notice to all creditors calling upon them to appear within twenty days of the
despatch of the notice to take payment in cash, failing which the money due will be
remitted by post at their expense and risk.
(iii) On the expiry of the period allowed by the notice, the Official Receiver shall remit
by money order, at their own risk and expense, the dividends due to all creditors who
have not taken payment in cash. If the amount is too large to be remitted by a single
money order, it should be spread over the requisite number of money orders. The
insolvency Judge shall cancel any cheques in favour of persons who have not taken
payment in cash.
(iv) Notwithstanding any of the foregoing provisions, the Official Receiver may remit
by post without previous notice and at the risk and expense of the creditor the
dividend due to any creditor who has consented in writing to this being done.
Note:- Small payments of sums less than Rs. 50 may be made in cash out of the
permanent advance granted to the Official Receiver under Rule 20.
62. Bills should be kept with sub-vouchers in guard files.-- Bills should be
numbered serially for each month and should be filed with sub-vouchers in support of
them in the Official Receiver's Office in guard files and separate from misls.
63. Furniture list to be kept.-- Articles of office furniture purchased from time to time
for the office of the Official Receiver, should be shown in a list to be kept in Form 20,
and to be hung up in the Official Receiver's office.
63-A. Stock of all movable property, etc., to be checked yearly.-- The stock of
movable property, stationery and forms, and stamps, etc., should be checked yearly
by actual verification and a report to this effect should be submitted to the Court by
the Official Receiver.


--- Page 104 ---
97
64. Accounts to be maintained according to financial year.-- The accounts of
Official Receivers shall be maintained according to the financial year.
‘[65. Accounts to be audited once a year.— The accounts maintained by the
Official Receiver should be audited, as far as possible, once a year by the Director
General Audit, Punjab, provided that a Judge of the High Court may, in special cases
pending in the High Court, direct audit inspection by an agency other than the
Director General Audit, Punjab.]
66. Accounts of summary Administration also to be audited.-- The accounts
maintained in cases dealt with summarily by the Insolvency Courts under section 74
of the Act shall also be audited.
67. All necessary material to be supplied for audit.-- The Insolvency Judge should
cause to be placed at the disposal of the auditors all account registers, documents,
etc., which may be required by the Audit Officers.
68. Audit result to be sent to Insolvency Judge and High Court.-- The result of
the audit will be communicated in audit and inspection notes to the Insolvency Judge
and the Lahore High Court Lahore.
69. Audit and Inspection notes-how to be dealt with.-- The Insolvency Judge
should deal promptly with the audit and inspection notes.
The Official Receiver's report on these notes should be submitted in the following
form:-
1. Nature of objection;
2. Official Receiver's remarks
3. Remarks by the Insolvency Judge;
4. Order of the District Judge.
‘[70. Copy of the annotated note to be forwarded to the Examiner of Accounts
and another copy to be kept in office. Objection statement how to be dealt
with.-- A copy of the annotated replies to the Audit Observation shall be forwarded
to the Director General Audit, Punjab, and a copy of it kept


--- Page 105 ---
98
and produced to the Audit Officer at the time of the next Audit for information and
verification of the compliance made by the Insolvency Judge and consequential
settlement of Audit Observations.]
71. Only prescribed forms to be used. No forms other than those prescribed in
these rules should be used except with the sanction of the High Court which shall not
be accorded without the concurrence of the Director General Audit, Punjab.
72. Account books and registers to be bound and counting of pages to be
certified.-- Books of accounts and registers shall be strongly bound and paged
before being brought into use and all account registers should be counted and a
certificate to the effect that they contain so many pages recorded on the covering
sheet, before they are brought into use.
73. Stock account of all registers, etc., should be maintained.-- Stock account of
all account registers, books and forms should be maintained in form 21 appended to
these rules. As the receipt books bear potential money value, they should be kept
under the personal custody of the Official Receiver.
‘[74. The Director General Audit to be consulted in account matters not
provided for in rules.-- In the matter of details connected with the Accounts not
provided for in the rules, the Official Receiver should be guided by the instructions of
the Accountant General Punjab, as far as the accounting matters are concerned and
of the Director General Audit, Punjab, if the matters relate to Local Audit of these
Accounts.]
75. Erasures in accounts not allowed. Corrections and alterations to be made
in red ink and initialled.-- Corrections and alterations in accounts shall be made in
red ink and attested by the Official Receiver. Erasures should, on no account, be
allowed.


--- Page 106 ---
SSERENRNET 1
a
E=—
Ei
CTE
I OT
[ht
EET
a 1
Samm
a ee Si
EEm——
= is


--- Page 107 ---
100
EE
IE
LTT
EE
Im i
NER
Ea
gE = :
Ec
| IE
A]
S—r il
[0
Eo hl
EERILY


--- Page 108 ---
I NT
LE
i HET
—-
—
y
EI
| CA 0
ii
lpi


--- Page 109 ---
102

| 1

hil

Hi
Sm

pr 8
[jg
BL Lm]
| —E
— tl |!
man
1,
m—


--- Page 110 ---
103
E—
Th |
TE EER
INTEC

Hi i
H i Ia
i |
cd |
— i |
A Fela ;
BRR |


--- Page 111 ---
104
2
i
J ’
5 >
wy BB
£3 3
5
H
: |
i!
h-]
. 1
2 1
g i
i
£
1
HH
£
3
it
§ 2
£ ov
J 3 A
k:


--- Page 112 ---
105

B.C TETeE]

rif
[|
EE
pe
E—
—— 1
IE (
Tl
Sm")
IL
Oe
TEE NE
EA —— EE |


--- Page 113 ---
TaN I CE
| CIC
EC —
§

I 1
i AEE
1 1E CI
Ji LIC HE
ERIE
i 8 IE —
fell
+ A TE
+ I EE
Ly ee ——


--- Page 114 ---
BB {
Fi
Ni
: il
li ih


--- Page 115 ---
Fr g ] rE FH :
THRE ip
i I 1

3 |

ERE
BIRNAETE:

ARIE
Aime
8s |g
BIEL
NER
vy TCT
CE


--- Page 116 ---
109
) Fa rg
EFT
P
i E
i £3
=
H
]
[] = [<]
i : tg
AE
‘ gE =
5
g
=
Hg :
LIT
2
Pod
[=]


--- Page 117 ---
110
SE
8 E ~
113
ERE
5 8
z
HA |
|
-<
$33
i
iit
Sn
rid
|i

gd 3 [55%

C1 [-}

x =
fiz
E|
2

=
F
E
i £
[3
g
£5
ZZ
© 3
£8


--- Page 118 ---
111
HH
3
#
& 8k
585
idle ls
i | [Bp
5 Ef
4 2 [3
§ | [F3icE
1
i El
fm,
a ro
18 —
wed ly
ig:


--- Page 119 ---
112
184 i
| 1
gl 2.91
: LHI
gE
: J
E 5 z
$ f-3 ~-
J aceamm—
& |e es
: PRET]
?yiisild.
Els
{i ET... i


--- Page 120 ---
113

J I EY
ig [ed
ir
Hl ik
| EEE
g
+ EET
[mm
4 1% ¢
[Js |*s
fl [-[ed
: ey
: - ili

|=4
gl [=[1]
Tem
EOE
8
8
Sele | il]
g


--- Page 121 ---
{NE BE ERAN
EF
{RENE IRE
AEE I
| HENRI
i= |
:
$s [5
STs ET 1
4 || ICE
3 | 2
HH IE HE
: {CF —
1 ETT
=
[6
A
BEER


--- Page 122 ---
TE]
a
EER
EE
ar
Ei 2 2
rrr i

ssi]
messin


--- Page 123 ---
FE TEE
ERE
Fel
ik
oC —
| EF —
Rs -T TT
AIRE a.
Fle TT]
0
I Pe | |
HE EN
TE
HH
ED


--- Page 124 ---
117
= 5-4
iE HL
EEN ATT
BHAT
at fl] #4 8
HEHE
jie) gE
inl dll] PE
EEE TT i
Fiey .
I B70 a 1
FP g
i de
fil :
(EEL
OEEREEE
at |


--- Page 125 ---
118

's

il -

8s

ie

t

DERE
iE & :
ic i,

3 Hi
_NEETIEER
it
EEE


--- Page 126 ---
119
Fe 77 3. TT 5d .
wf g 8 HE -
al | 5 i | off H = g
0 HAD :
i [| [|mg
5 Bh Es
i Eiii EL
| s Sa er rae Ey [7
H=——1———12¢
| ou —— — 2 — $k #
pe iE
3H ICI [S—) EN EL ERs 3
ges iE
MF |¢
=F pa) | ¥
FF ————— |
tt |
| il;
£ Li


--- Page 127 ---
EER
EEE |
i he
1 —
£ £
Hi
n El Real « [ERIS]
SEL TT
[TR Re a LO 18
(ow
FT
Bier a ald)
ET ERE |


--- Page 128 ---
121
Ee v= iF
i ly
i
| i
=


--- Page 129 ---
122

FORM NO.25 Fidelity Bond
(See rule 10 of Chapter 5-A, High Court Rules and Orders, Volume II)
Amount of guarantee Rs.
Annual premium Rs.
KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE PRESENTS THAT
(hereinafter referred to as the 'said Employee’) and the. are held jointly and
severally bound unto the Governor of the Punjab, his successors in office and
assigns (hereinafter called 'Government) in the sum of rupees
(hereinafter called the ‘amount guaranteed’) to be paid to the Government for which
payment to be well and faithfully made the Official Receiver and the said Company,
for itself and its successors do hereby bind themselves firmly by these presents.
Signature of the Official Receiver.
Sealed with the seal of the said Company (or signed by an authorised agent).
Dated the day of (year)
WHEREAS the said Employee has been appointed Official Receiver for the district
of and having been required to enter into a bond, for the due
and faithful discharge of his duties while he shall be employee in the said office, and
also to find a surety who shall enter into a bond for the sum of rupees
the said Company at the request of the said Employee, has agreed to become such
surety for him, in respect of such due and faithful discharge of his duties
while employee in the said office as aforesaid, or in any office attached or incident
to the same (hereinafter described as the "said office") (and as well in respect of
the present duties of his said office, as of any


--- Page 130 ---
123

new or altered duties which may be imposed on or attached to the said office, or the
said Employee as such officer, by any Law, Rule, Regulation, Practice or otherwise)
for the period of twelve calendar months from the day of

19, in consideration of the said Employee having
paid to the said Company the amount set out in figures at the head of these presents
and there designated "Annual Premium", prior to the execution of the above written
Bond and the said Company has agreed to become such surety as aforesaid for the
further period of twelve calendar months, and so on from year to year at the option of
the said Company, upon receiving from the said Employee the said annual premium,
to be paid by him to the said Company on or before the day
of in each year prior to the determination of the present or the
then current year, but the said Company is to be at liberty to determine its further
liability at the end of the present or any current year, by giving notice in writing to the
District Judge of. district for the time being as hereinafter mentioned ,
and if at any time notice in writing shall be given as hereinafter mentioned to the said
Company at their office in that any loss or damage whatever
has been occasioned by the acts or defaults of the said Employee in respect of his
said employment, the liability of the said Company as to any future loss or damage
shall then also cease as from the date of the service of such notice and the year
during which the said Company has now agreed, or shall by acceptance of the said
premium in future agree, to become such surety, shall be called the year of
Guarantee, and shall commence on the. day
of in each year independently of the time when the said
premium shall be paid and the liability of the said Company shall extend to all acts
and defaults of the said Employee during that year, or until an end shall be put to
further liability by such notice in writing declaring loss or damage as aforesaid.
Now the condition of the above written Bond or obligation is such that if the said
Employee shall and do during the said period of twelve calendar months from the
said day of 19 and during such
other period as the said Company shall become or continue to be such surety as
aforesaid, by acceptance of the said renewal premium, or until


--- Page 131 ---
124
notice of some loss or damage shall be given, as hereinafter mentioned, from time to
time and at all times during the continuance of his said office, well and sufficiently
perform and execute all and singular the duties of his said office, or of or belonging to
him as such officer, or belonging to or in any way imposed upon him by reason of his
being such officer, and conduct himself with fidelity, integrity, and punctuality in and
concerning the matters and things which shall be entrusted to him as such officer, or
in respect of such duties as aforesaid and do and shall well and truly pay and apply
all property including cash, coin, currency notes, stock notes, cheques, postal money
orders, hundis, promissory notes, bills of exchange, securities, scrip, shares, bullion,
jewellery, precious stones, crops, cattle, documents, records, accounts, vouchers,
books, papers and all other property whatsoever both movable and immovable as
shall, from time to time, come to his hands by virtue of such office or duties as
aforesaid, or to the hands of his deputies, assistants, agents or other persons acting
under his authority or on his behalf, or any of them respectively, and do and shall
also well and truly pay all sums of money which he shall or may become liable to pay
for any neglect or misbehavior in his said office, or in respect of his said duties, and
do and shall at all times, when duly required, produce and render true and correct
accounts of the receipt, payment and application of all such property, as aforesaid,
as shall so come to the hands of him, the said Employee, as aforesaid, or to the
hands of his assistants or other persons acting under his authority or on his behalf,
with proper and sufficient vouchers for the due application thereof, and shall not, in
any wise, take to his own use, misapply, lend or embezzle, make away with, neglect
to account for, lose or hazard any property whatsoever, as aforesaid, or any part
thereof, and do and shall at the expiration or other termination of his said office or
duties deliver up to the person duly authorized to receive the same, all books,
papers, documents, and accounts relating to his said office or duties and do and shall
pay and deliver to the person or persons duly authorized to receive the same, the
balance (if any) of any such property, as aforesaid, remaining in the hands of and
due from him the said Employee and shall not at any time quit or neglect the
performance of his said duties or resign his said office without giving three months"
notice in writing to the District Judge of for the time being, or if,
upon any award in arbitration being given under the hand of the District Judge


--- Page 132 ---
125

of for the time being, certifying and declaring the amount of any
loss or damage occasioned by the acts or defaults of the said Employee subsequent
to the said day of 19 , in respect of such
employment, the said Employee, his heirs, executors, or administrators or the said
Company or their successors, do and shall pay and make good to the Government
the sum stated in such award as the amount of such loss or damage, then the above
written bond or obligation shall, subject as hereinafter mentioned, be void, or else be
and remain in full force and virtue.
PROVIDED ALWAYS that first, if any such award certifying and declaring the loss or
damage shall be given as aforesaid; or Secondly, if the said Employee shall omit to
pay to the said Company on or before the --------s--ee-eeeee--e- day of

in any year of guarantee the annual premium aforesaid,
and the said Company shall give notice in writing of such default to the District Judge
aforesaid for the time being one calendar month prior to termination of the then
current year of guarantee, unless the said Employee shall cause the said annual
premium to be paid to the said Company before the expiration of the then current
year of guarantee; Thirdly, if the said Company shall give notice in writing to the
District Judge aforesaid for the time being one calendar month previous to the
termination of any year of guarantee that they will not continue their suretyship
beyond the then current year of guarantee; or Fourthly, if the said Company shall
refuse to renew the said suretyship by declining to accept the said premium from the
said Employee, and thereof shall give notice to the said District Judge aforesaid for
the time being one calendar month previous to the termination of the then current
year of guarantee, then in the First case from and immediately after the giving of
such award and in the Second, Third and Fourth cases from and immediately after
the expiration of the then current year of guarantee all further liability of the said
Company as such surety as aforesaid shall cease, save and except as to the right of
the Government to indemnify from loss or damage arising from all or any acts or
defaults of the said Employee previously committed in relation to such employment
as aforesaid.


--- Page 133 ---
126
PROVIDED ALWAYS and it is hereby agreed and declared that this bond is entered
into by the said Company on the condition that the capital stock and fund for the time
being of the said Company, other than the life Assurance Funds, shall alone be liable
to answer and make good all claims or demands in respect of this bond, and that no
Director or other Proprietor or Holder of shares of the said Company shall in any
manner be personally liable or subject to any claims or demands by reason of such
Bond beyond his or her particular share or shares of such capital, stock and funds.
PROVIDED ALWAYS and it is hereby agreed and declared that if any dispute arises
between Government and either or both the other parties to this Bond as to his or
their liability thereunder or as regards the meaning or operation of any part thereof or
the rights, duties, or liabilities of any party or whether this Bond should be enforced,
or, if enforced, as regards the rights and obligations of the parties as a result of such
enforcement then such difference or dispute shall be referred for arbitration to the
District Judge for the time being at
and his decision shall be final and binding and where the matter involves a claim for
or the payment or recovery or deduction of money only the amount, if any, awarded
in such arbitration shall be recoverable in respect of the matter so referred.
PROVIDED ALWAYS and it is hereby agreed and declared that while and so long as
the above written Bond or obligation shall remain in force, on each occasion on which
the accounts of the employee, as Official Receiver, shall be audited by the
appropriate Government Department, the said District Judge shall, upon demand by
the Company, furnish to the Company, a copy of the note recorded at and containing
the results of such audit, which copy shall be duly certified to be correct by an officer
of the court of the District Judge.
IN WITNESSES whereof the said has hereunto set his
hand and seal and the have hereunto caused their Common Seal or
the signature of their authorised agents to be affixed the day and year first above
written.


--- Page 134 ---
127

SIGNED, SEALED AND DELIVERED by the said in the presence
of (Witness).
(Signature of the Official Receiver)
SEALED WITH the Common Seal of the said Company.

) Director ) Signed by in authorised

) ) agent of the Company.

) Manager)

Accepted )
(Signature)
District Judge. District
for and on behalf of the Governor
of the Punjab

No.
Entered.
Examined.
NOTE.1. The Bond may be signed, instead of the Directors and Managers, by any
authorised agent of the Company (vide resolution No.8, Judges' Meeting, dated the
25th January 1937).
NOTE.2. The words 'sealed with the common seal of the said company’ and all
references to the seal of the Company may be deleted, and the words 'Branch
Manager' substituted for the words 'Director' and 'Manager' when the Bond is
executed and signed by an agent of the Company who is authorised to sign and bind
the Company.


--- Page 135 ---
128

Form No. 26
WHEREAS |,--------------son 0f------------- Caste--------- resident of---------- in the---------
district of the Punjab, have been appointed to the office of Official Receiver in the-----
------ district of the Punjab upon the condition inter alia that | do furnish proper
security in the sum of [Rs.30,000/-(Rupees Thirty Thousand only)] for the due and
faithful discharge of my duties while employee in the said office or in any office
attached or incident to the same (hereinafter described as the said office) and for the
due accounting for all property by me at any time held or received by virtue of may
said office.
NOW THEREFORE THIS SECURITY BOND WITNESSETH......... as follows, that is
to say:-
Clause |.-- In this Security Bond and for the purposes of each and all of the
provisions thereof the expression --
(a) "Government" means the Governor of the Punjab acting by and through the --------
(b) "Official Receiver" means ----------------------- SON Of -------------, CASE -=====mrrmmmmmmman
------ resident of -------------eeeeeeeeeeeeecin th@----meeeeeeeoooeooeeeeeeeeeeoooeo- district of the
Punjab at present holding the office of Official Receiver in the---------==z=zzmeeeeeean
district of the Punjab.
(c) "property" includes cash, coin, currency notes, stock notes, cheques, postal
money order, hundies, promissory notes, bills of exchange, Government and other
securities, scrip, shares, bullion, jewellery, precious stones, crops, cattle, documents,
records, accounts, vouchers, books, papers and all other property whatsoever both
movable and immovable.


--- Page 136 ---
129

Clause II. -- The Official Receiver is held and firmly bound to Government in the sum
of ‘[Rs. 30,000/-(Rupees Thirty Thousand only)] as security for the due and faithful
discharge of the duties of his said office, that is, he shall from time to time and at all
times during the continuance of his said office work and sufficiently perform and
execute all and singular the duties of his said office or of a belonging to him as such
officer or belonging to or in any way imposed upon him by reason of his being such
officer and conduct himself with fidelity, integrity, and punctuality in and concerning
the matters and things which shall be entrusted to him as such officer in respect of
such duties as aforesaid and do and shall well and truly pay and apply all property as
shall from time to time come to his hands by virtue of such office or duties as
aforesaid or to the hands of his deputies, assistants, agents or other persons acting
under his authority or on his behalf or any of them respectively and do and shall also
well and truly pay and apply all property whatsoever which he shall be or may
become liable to pay or apply for any neglect or misbehaviour in his said office or in
respect of his said duties and do and shall at all times when duly required produce
and render true and correct accounts of the receipt, payment and application of all
property whatsoever as shall so come to the hands of him the Official Receiver as
aforesaid, or to the hands of his assistants or other persons acting under his authority
or on his behalf with proper and sufficient vouchers for the due application thereof
and shall not in any wise take to his own use, lend or embezzle, make away with,
neglect to account for, lose or hazard any such property as aforesaid or any part
thereof and do and shall at the expiration or other termination of his said office or
duties deliver up to the person duly authorised to receive the same all books, papers,
documents and accounts relating to his said office or duties and do and shall pay and
deliver to the person or persons duly authorised to receive the same the balance (if
any) of the property as aforesaid remaining in the hands of and due from him the said
Official Receiver.

Clause lll.-- The Official Receiver has deposited the sum of rupees ten thousand in
cash and /or has deposited Government Promissory notes of the face value of
rupees---------------------------------- in the said district as a security deposit for the due
and faithful performance of his duties as Official Receiver and the due accounting by
him of the property held by him as aforesaid.


--- Page 137 ---
130
Clause IV.-- All interest which may from time to time accrue due and become payable
upon the security deposit aforesaid shall be paid to the Official Receiver, but the
principal amount of the security deposit shall continue to be held and retained by the
Government subject to each and all of the terms and conditions of this security bond
and until it shall be and become payable to the Official Receiver according to all or
any to the provisions of the said Bond.
Clause V.-- This Security Bond shall be deemed to be and be a Bond entered into
under the orders of the Government for the performance of a public duty within the
meaning of section 74 of the Contract Act, 1872, and the whole sum secured shall be
liable to be realised and forfeited to the Government in the event of any breach by
the Official Receiver of all or any of the terms or conditions thereof.
Clause VI. --The Government or any officer having authority in this behalf under it
shall, subject to the provisions of Clauses VII and VIII hereinafter appearing hold and
retain the security (deposit) so long as the following conditions obtain, that is to say:-
(a) The Official Receiver shall during his continuance in the office aforesaid faithfully,
diligently and honestly discharge all and singular his duties as laid down in clause II
hereof and shall not at any time quit or neglect the performance of the said duties or
resign his said office without giving ---------------------------- months" notice in writing to
the District Judge for the time being of--------------------- of his desire to resign the said
oe Official Receiver shall during the continuance of his said office indemnify and
save harmless the Government from and against all losses, costs, damages, and
expenses which shall or may at any time or times hereafter be sustained by
Government or any officer of Government from or through the neglect, failure,
misconduct, disobedience, omission or insolvency of the said Official Receiver or any
person serving under or employee by him or from or through the consuming, wasting,
embezzling, stealing, misspending, losing, misapplying or otherwise dishonestly or
negligently or through oversight or violence making away or parting with any property
or part or parts thereof by any person or persons whomsoever, while the Official
Receiver shall continue to act in any such office.
Clause VII.-- In the event of any breach of or default in all or any of the conditions
herein before in the preceding clause set forth and provided the


--- Page 138 ---
131
Government may take and forfeit to itself the whole amount of the security (deposit):
PROVIDED that the Government may, instead of taking and forfeiting to itself the
whole amount of the security (deposit), retain only so much thereof as it may, in its
absolute discretion, deem adequate to compensate, reimburse or indemnify it in
respect of the loss or damage or inconvenience sustained by reason of the breach or
default committed and may refund any balance to the Official Receiver but neither
the official Receiver nor his lawful heirs, representatives or assigns shall have any
right or claim to any such refund.
Clause VIIl.-- In the event of the Official Receiver quitting or being relieved of the
office of Official Receiver or for any reason becoming incapable of further service in
his said office, or dying, the security (deposit) shall if there shall have been no breach
or default in all or any of the conditions herein before in Clause VI hereof set forth
and provided, and if there shall be no claim or demand outstanding against the
Official Receiver in favour of Government, be refunded and paid to the said Official
Receiver or to his lawful heirs legal representatives or assigns as the case may be:
PROVIDED that the Government may, in its discretion retain the security (deposit) for
a period not exceeding six months after the date on which the Official Receiver quits
the service of the Government or becomes incapable of further service in the said
office, or dies, for the purpose of ascertaining or satisfying itself that there has been
no breach or default as aforesaid and that no claim or demand is so outstanding.
Clause IX.-- The forfeiture or refund, as the case may be, of the security (deposit),
shall not, in any way affect, limit or extinguish any remedy or relief to which the
Government may at any time be lawfully entitled against the said Official Receiver in
respect of anything done or omitted to be done by him as Official Receiver, either
before or after such forfeiture or refund and nothing in this Security Bond contained
shall be deemed to relieve the Official Receiver from any suit, prosecution or
proceeding to which he may be liable under any law for the time being in force in
respect of anything by him at any time done or omitted.


--- Page 139 ---
132
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the said Official Receiver has hereunto subscribed
his name at --------=--eevneememcccecacaaacon the@esemeememmeemmeeeennenneneans day Of =mmeeeeeeeeeeenee
[ENT
Signed by.
(Name)
Official Designation.


--- Page 140 ---
133
Form No. 27

WHEREAS |,------------------- son 0f---------------- Caste---------------- resident of------------
-- in the -------------district of the Punjab have been appointed to the office of the
Official Receiver in the-------------district of the Punjab upon the condition inter alia
that | do furnish proper security in the sum of ‘[Rs.30,000/-(Rupees Thirty Thousand
only)] for the due and faithful discharge of my duties while employee in the said office
or in any office attached or incident to the same (hereinafter described as the said
office) and for the due accounting for all property by me at any time held or received
by virtue of my said office.
NOW THEREFORE THIS SECURITY BOND WITNESSETH as follows, that is to say
Clause 1.- In this security bond and for the purposes of each and all of the provisions
thereof the expression-
(a) "Government" means the Governor of the Punjab acting by and through the
District Judge of. .
(b) "Official Receiver" means son of

caste resident of

in the district of the Punjab at

present holding the office of Official Receiver in the district of
the Punjab.
(c) "Property" includes cash, coin, currency notes, stock, notes, cheques, postal
money-orders, hundies, promissory notes, bills of exchange, Government and other
securities, scrip, shares, bullion, jewellery, precious stones, crops, cattle, documents,
records, accounts, vouchers, books, papers and all other property whatsoever both
movable and immovable.
(d) "Security" means the sum of money by this Security Bond secured and assured to
Government for the due and faithful discharge of his duties by the Official Receiver
and for the due accounting for all property by him at any time held or received by
virtue of his said office.
Clause Il.-- The official Receiver is held and firmly bound to Government in the
sum of ‘Rs.30,000/-(Rupees Thirty Thousand only)] as security for the due
and faithful discharge of the duties of the said office, that is, he, the Official Receiver,
shall from time to time and at all times during the


--- Page 141 ---
134
continuance of his said office work and sufficiently perform and execute all and
singular the duties of his said office or belonging to him as such officer or belonging
or in any way imposed upon him by reason of his being such officer and conduct
himself with fidelity, integrity and punctuality in and concerning the matters and things
which shall be entrusted to him as such officer or in respect of such duties as
aforesaid and due and shall well and truly pay and apply all property as shall from
time to time come to his hands by virtue of such office or duties as aforesaid or to the
hands of his deputies, assistants, agents or other persons acting under his authority
or on his behalf or any of them respectively and do and shall also well and truly pay
and apply all properties whatsoever which he shall hold or become liable to pay or
apply for any neglect or misbehaviour in his said office or in respect of his said duties
and do and shall at all time when duly required, produce and render true and correct
accounts of the receipt, payment and application of all property
whatsoever as shall so come to the hands of him, the Official Receiver, as aforesaid,
or to the hands of his assistants or other persons acting under his authority or on his
behalf with proper and sufficient vouchers for the due application thereof and shall
not in any wise take to his own use, lend or embezzle, make away with, neglect to
account for, lose or hazard any such property as aforesaid, or any part thereof and
do and shall at the expiration or other termination of his said office or duties deliver
up to the person, duly authorised to receive the same, all books, papers, documents
and accounts relating to his said office or duties and do and shall pay and deliver to
the person or persons duly authorised to receive the same the balance (if any) of the
property as aforesaid remaining in the hands of and due from him the said Official
Receiver.
Clause lIl.- The Official Receiver has executed and registered a deed of mortgage
dated the. day of 19, of the
property in the said deed of mortgage set forth and specified as security for the due
and faithful performance of his duties as Official Receiver and the due accounting by
him of the property held by him as aforesaid.
Clause IV.- This Security Bond shall be deemed to be and be a bond entered into
under the orders of the Government for the performance of a public


--- Page 142 ---
135
duty within the meaning of Section 74 of the Contract Act, 1872, and the whole
security shall be liable to be forfeited to the Government in the event of any Breach
by the Official Receiver of all or any of the terms or conditions thereof.
Clause V.-- The Government or any officer having authority in this behalf under it
shall, subject to the provisions of clauses VI and VII hereinafter appearing, hold and
retain the security so long as the following conditions obtain, that is to say:-
(a) The Official Receiver shall during his continuance in the office aforesaid faithfully,
diligently and honestly discharge all and singular his duties as laid down in clause II
hereof and shall not at any time quit or neglect the performance of the said duties or
resign his said office without giving month's notice in
writing to the District Judge for the time being of his desire
to resign the said office.
(b) The Official Receiver shall during the continuance of his said office indemnify and
save harmless the Government from and against all losses, costs, damages and
expenses which shall or may at any time or times hereafter be sustained by
Government or any officer of Government from or through the neglect, failure,
misconduct, disobedience, omission or insolvency of the said Official Receiver or any
person serving under or employee by him or from or through the consuming, wasting,
embezzling, stealing, mis-spending, losing mis-applying or otherwise dishonestly or
negligently or through over-sight or violence making away or parting with any
property or part or parts thereof by any person or persons whomsoever while the
Official Receiver shall continue to act in any such office.
Clause VLI.-- In the event of any breach of or default in all or any of the conditions
herein before in the preceding clause set forth and provided the Government may
realize, take and forfeit to itself the whole amount of the security:
PROVIDED that the Government may, instead of taking and forfeiting to itself the
whole amount of the security retain only so much thereof as it may, in its absolute
discretion, deem adequate to compensate, reimburse or indemnify it in respect of the
loss or damage or inconvenience sustained by reason of the breach or default
committed and may refund any balance to the Official Receiver; but neither the
Official Receiver nor his lawful heirs, representatives or assigns shall have any right
or claim to any such refund.


--- Page 143 ---
136
Clause VIL-- In the event of the Official Receiver quitting or being relieved of the
office of Official Receiver or for any reason becoming incapable of further service in
his said office, or dying, the security shall, if there shall have been no breach or
default in all or any of the conditions herein before in Clause V hereof set forth and
provided, and if there shall be no claim or demand outstanding against the Official
Receiver in favour of Government, be reconveyed at his or their cost and expense to
the said Official Receiver or to his lawful heirs, legal representatives or assigns as
the case may be:
PROVIDED that the Government may, in its discretion, retain the security for a period
not exceeding six months after the date on which the official Receiver quits the
service of the Government or becomes incapable of further service in the said office
or dies, for the purpose of ascertaining or satisfying itself that there has been no
breach of default as aforesaid and that no claim or demand is so outstanding.
Clause VIIL.- The forfeiture or reconveyance, as the case may be, of the Security
Deposits shall not in any way affect, limit or extinguish any remedy or relief to which
the Government may at any time be lawfully entitled against the said Official
Receiver in respect of anything done or omitted to be done by him as Official
Receiver , either before or after such forfeiture or reconveyance and nothing in this
Security Bond contained shall be deemed to relieve the Official Receiver from any
suit, prosecution or proceeding to which he may be liable under any law for the time
being in force in respect of anything by him at any time done or omitted.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the said Official Receiver has hereunto subscribed his
name at on the day Of---eemmeeeeeeceeeenaas 19,
Signed by
(Name)
Official Designation.
1.
2. EE


--- Page 144 ---
137

Form No. 28
THIS INDENTURE made this--------------= day Of----s----r-eccrece 19 BETWEEN---------
---- son Of------------caste----------resident of-------------—---(hereinafter called the
mortgagor) of the one part and the Governor of the Punjab (hereinafter called the
mortgagee) of the other part.
WHEREAS----------===-=---------, s0N Of------------- caste--------, resident of-------------------
-==mmmmmmmmemmo------- (hereinafter called the Official Receiver) on the---------------------- day
Of ---snnnnmeneeeaeee----- 19 appointed to and now holds and exercise the office of Official
Receiver of the -----------------district.
AND WHEREAS in consideration of the said appointment and for the purpose of in
part securing and indemnifying the mortgagee, his successors and assigns against
all loss or damage that the mortgagee may, in any way, suffer by reason of the
neglect of duty waste or embezzlement or otherwise of any property or part or parts
thereof in charge of or in the care and custody of the said Official Receiver or his
subordinates or agents and of giving effect to the Bond of even date by the
mortgagor, he, the mortgagor, has agreed to convey by way of mortgage the
hereditaments and premises described in the schedule hereunto annexed to the
mortgagee.
Now this indenture witnesseth that in pursuance of the said agreement and
in consideration of the said appointment of the Official Receiver the mortgagor
do hereby grant convey and assign unto the mortgagee his successors and
assigns all those hereditaments and premises situate in-------------more
particularly described and mentioned in the schedule and delineated in the map
or plan hereunto annexed respectively together with all easements, rights
and things appurtenant or reputed appurtenant thereto and all deeds puttas
and instruments of title relating thereto and the estate, right, title, interest, claim
and demand whatsoever of him the mortgagor into and upon the said hereditaments
and premises and every part thereof. To Have and to Hold the same unto and to
the use of the mortgagee, his successors and assigns for ever subject to the proviso
for redemption hereinafter contained Provided always and it is hereby declared and it
is the true intent and meaning of these presents and of the said parties hereto that if
the said Official Receiver shall always duly perform and fulfil all the duties and
obligations of his said office while he shall hold or


--- Page 145 ---
138
exercise the same as set forth in the Bond of even date herein before specified and
also if the mortgagee, his heirs and legal representatives will pay and make good to
the mortgagor his successors and assigns and to the superior officers of the said
Official Receiver all losses and damages which he or they may have sustained or
incurred in consequence of the failure of the said Official Receiver to perform and
fulfil all the duties and obligations as set forth in the said Bond of even date (but
subject always to the proviso hereinafter contained) the mortgagee shall and will at
the request and cost of the mortgagor, his heirs or legal representatives reconvey
and reassign the said hereditaments and premises hereby granted unto the
mortgagor his heirs or representatives as he or they shall direct. And in the meantime
and until default shall be made by the said Official Receiver in the due performance
of his duties as aforesaid the mortgagor his heirs and legal representatives shall
continue in possession of and in receipt of the rents and profits of the said
hereditaments and premises. And the mortgagor do hereby for himself, his heirs,
legal representatives and assigns covenant with the mortgagee his successors and
assigns that he the mortgagor now has good right to grant the hereditaments and
premises hereby granted or expressed so to be unto and to the use of the mortgagee
his successors and assigns in manner aforesaid and that free from incumbrances
and the mortgagor do hereby for himself his heirs legal representatives and assigns
covenant with the mortgagee his successors and assigns that whenever in exercise
of the power hereinafter reserved to the mortgagee his successors and assigns sale
shall be made of the said hereditaments and premises hereby granted or expressed
so to be or any part thereof the mortgagee his successors assigns or any other
person or persons who may purchase the same their heirs legal representatives and
assigns shall and may at all times thenceforth quietly possess and enjoy the same
and receive the rents and profits thereof without any lawful eviction, interruption,
claim or demand whatsoever from or by the mortgagor or any person rightfully
claiming from under or in trust for him and that free from incumbrances. And further
he the mortgagor and all other persons having or lawfully or equitably claiming any estate or
interest in the said hereditaments and premises or any part thereof shall and will from time to
time and at all times thereafter at his or their own costs during the continuance of this security
and afterwards at the costs of the person or persons requiring the same do and


--- Page 146 ---
139

execute or cause to be done and executed all such acts deeds and things for further
and more perfectly assuring the said hereditaments and premises unto and to the
use of the mortgage his successors and assigns and other persons aforesaid in
manner aforesaid as shall or may be reasonably required.

And it is hereby agreed and declared and the true intent and meaning of the parties
hereto is that if default shall be made by the said Official Receiver in the due
performance of his duties in such office or employment as aforesaid or in making
good the damages, losses, costs, charges and expenses herein before mentioned
and contained or any part thereof respectively then and in such case and
immediately thereupon or at any time thereafter or from time to time as occasion
shall require it shall be lawful for the mortgagee his successors and assigns or his or
their officers and servants duly authorized in that behalf and notwithstanding the
dissent or opposition of the mortgagor his heirs or legal representatives to enter into
and upon and (whether in or out of possession) to make sale and absolutely dispose
of the said hereditaments and premises hereby granted or expressed so to be or any
part thereof by public auction or private contract and for such price or prices as to the
mortgagee his successors or assigns shall appear reasonable with liberty to buy in
the same or any part thereof and for effectuating any such sale it shall be lawful for
the mortgagee his successors or assigns to do make and enter into all necessary
acts deeds conveyances and assurances whatsoever. And it is hereby further
declared by and between the parties to these presents that such deeds, acts and
conveyances and assurances done, made or executed under or by virtue of these
presents shall be good, valid and effectual whether the mortgagor, his heirs or legal
representatives shall or shall not join therein or sent thereto and shall bind the
mortgagor, his heirs or legal representatives and all other persons claiming under
him or them.

And it is hereby further declared that the power of sale herein before contained shall and may
be exercised and that all things to be done in pursuance thereof shall be good valid and
binding notwithstanding that no decree of any court of law or equity for bearing or closing the
equity of redemption shall have been previously obtained but this power of sale is given in
addition to the ordinary remedies of foreclosure. And that the receipt in writing of the District
Judge of for the time being for all moneys


--- Page 147 ---
140
to arise from any such sale or sales shall be good and sufficient discharge to the
persons paying the same and shall exonerate such persons from all responsibility in
respect of the application or non-application of the same nor shall he or they be
bound to enquire whether the sale was regular or authorised under these presents
Provided always and it is hereby agreed and declared by and between the mortgagor
and the mortgagee that on the vacation by the said Official Receiver of his said office
of Official Receiver as aforesaid the above mentioned hereditaments and premises
shall not be at once reconveyed to the mortgagor his heirs or legal representatives
but shall be and remain mortgaged with the mortgagee for the term of six months as
security against any loss that may have been incurred by the mortgagee owing to the
neglect or default of the said Official Receiver and which may not have been
discovered until after the vacation of his appointment by the said Official Receiver
Provided always that the reconveyance at any time of the hereditaments and
premises shall not be deemed to effect the rights of the mortgagee to take
proceedings against the mortgagor or the Official Receiver, aforesaid, in case any
breach of the conditions set forth in this deed of the said Bond of even dates shall be
discovered after the reconveyance of the said hereditaments and premises.
IN WITNESS whereof the parties to these presents have hereunto set and
subscribed their hands and seals on the dates hereinafter mentioned, respectively.
Signed, sealed and delivered by the said----------------------=--===zsmenuo- ON th@--------------
El + | J + El [* BE]
BE (JR (1-38 (=== To lo JE
Bl 11 Je
Signed sealed and delivered by --------------=-----eveeeeeeeeeeeaenee for and on behalf of
the Government on the ----------s=ssemmmmmmeeeeee eee day Of -omoeemmmomoooooeeen
[ER—T-N


--- Page 148 ---
141
FORM NO.29
WHEREAS ----------------- son Of --------------------- Caste -----------------resident of --------
==mmmzmmmmmenmaaooo-in the --------------- district in the Punjab has been appointed to the
office of Official Receiver in the ------------=z--eeeemeeemeo-district in the Punjab upon
conditions inter alia that he does furnish proper security in the sum of ‘[Rs.30,000/-
(Rupees Thirty Thousand only)] for the due and faithful discharge of his duties while
employee in the said office or in any office attached or incident to the same
(hereinafter described as the said Office) and for the due accounting for all property
by him at any time held or received by virtue of the said office.
AND WHEREAS son
of Caste resident
of in the district in the Punjab
(hereinafter on his own behalf and on behalf of his heirs, legal representatives,
administrators, executors and assigns called the surety) has agreed to stand surety
for the due performance as aforesaid of the duties of Official Receiver by the
aforesaid.
NOW THEREFORE THIS SECURITY BOND WITNESSETH as follows, that is to
say:-
Clause I.- In this Security Bond and for the purposes of each and all of the provisions
thereof the expression-
(a) "Government" means the Governor of the Punjab acting by and through the
District Judge of. .
(b) "Official Receiver" means. son
of caste resident
of in the
district of the Punjab.
(c) "Property" includes cash, coin, currency notes, stock notes, cheques, postal
money-orders, hundis, promissory notes, bills of exchange, Government and other
securities, scrip, shares, bullion, jewellery, precious stones, crops, cattle, documents,
records, accounts , vouchers, books, papers and all other property whatsoever both
movable and immovable.
(d) Security means the sum of money by this Security Bond secured and assured
to Government for the due and faithful discharge of his duties by the Official
Receiver and for the due accounting for


--- Page 149 ---
142

all property by him at any time held or received by virtue of his said office.
Clause Il.- The Official Receiver and the Surety are held and firmly bound to
Government in the sum of [Rs.30,000/-(Rupees Thirty Thousand only)] as security
for the due and faithful discharge of the duties of the said office, that is, he, the
Official Receiver, shall from time to time and at all times during the continuance of his
said office work and sufficiently perform and execute all and singular the duties of his
said office or belonging to him as such officer or belonging to or in any way imposed
upon him by reason of his being such officer and conduct himself with fidelity,
integrity and punctuality in and concerning the matters and things which shall be
entrusted to him as such officer in respect of such duties as aforesaid and do and
shall well and truly pay and apply all property as shall from time to time come to his
hands by virtue of such office or duties as aforesaid or to the hands of his deputies,
assistants, agents, or other persons acting under his authority or on his behalf or any
of them respectively and do and shall also well and truly pay and apply property
whatsoever which he holds or become liable to pay or apply for any neglect or
misbehaviour in his said office or in respect of his said duties and do and shall at all
times when duly required produce and render true and correct accounts of the
receipt, payment and application of all property whatsoever as shall so come to the
hands of him, the Official Receiver, as aforesaid, or to the hands of his assistants or
other persons acting under his authority or on his behalf with proper and sufficient
vouchers for the due application thereof and shall not in any wise take to his own
use, lend or embezzle, make away with, neglect to account for, lose or hazard any
such property, as aforesaid, or any part thereof and do and shall at the expiration or
other termination of his said office or duties deliver up to the person duly authorised
to receive the same all books, papers, documents and accounts relating to his said
office or duties and do and shall pay and deliver to the person or persons, duly
authorised, to receive the same the balance (if any) of the property as aforesaid
remaining in the hands of and due from him the said Official Receiver.
Clause lll.-- The surety has executed and registered a deed of mortgage, dated

date of. 19 of the property in the
said deed of mortgage set forth and specified as security for the


--- Page 150 ---
143

due and faithful performance of his duties by the Official Receiver and of the due
accounting by him of the property held by him as aforesaid.
Clause IV.-- This Security Bond shall be deemed to be and be a bond entered into
under the orders of the Government for the performance of a public duty within the
meaning of Section 74 of the Contract Act, 1872 and the whole security shall be
liable to be forfeited to the Government in the event of any breach by the Official
Receiver of all or any of the terms and conditions thereof.
Clause V.-- The Government or any officer having authority in this behalf under it
shall, subject to the provisions of clauses VI and VII hereinafter appearing hold and
retain the security so long as the following conditions obtained, that is to say:-
(a) The Official Receiver shall, during his continuance in the office aforesaid faithfully,
diligently and honestly discharge all and singular his duties, as laid down in Clause II
hereof and shall not at any time quit or neglect the performance of the said duties or
resign his said office without giving month's
notice in writing to the District Judge for the time being of

of his desire to resign the said office.
(b) The Official Receiver shall during the continuance of his said office indemnify and
save harmless the Government from and against all losses costs, damages and
expenses which shall or may at any time or times hereafter be sustained by
Government or any officer of Government from or through the neglect, failure,
misconduct, disobedience omission or insolvency of the said Official Receiver or any
person serving under or employee by him or from or through the consuming, wasting,
embezzling, stealing, mis-spending, losing , mis-applying or otherwise dishonestly or
negligently or through over sight or violence making away or parting with any
property or part or parts thereof by any person or persons whomsoever while the
Official Receiver shall continue to act in any such office.
Clause VI.-- In the event of any breach of or default in all or any of the conditions
herein before in the preceding clause set forth and provided the Government may
realize, take and forfeit to itself the whole amount of the Security:


--- Page 151 ---
144
PROVIDED that the Government may, instead of taking and forfeiting to itself the
whole amount of the Security realize and retain only so much thereof as it may in its
absolute discretion, deem adequate to compensate, reimburse or indemnify it in
respect of the losses or damage or inconvenience sustained by reason of the breach
or default committed, pay any balance thereof to the surety; but neither to the Official
Receiver nor his or their lawful heirs representatives or assigns shall have any right
or claim to any such payments.
Clause VIL-- In the event of the Official Receiver quitting or being relieved of the
office of Official Receiver or for any reason becoming incapable of further service in
his said office or dying the property secured, shall, if there shall have been no breach
or default in all or any of the conditions herein before in clause V hereof set forth and
provided, and if there shall be no claim or demand outstanding against the Official
Receiver in favour of Government, be reconveyed at his or their cost and expense to
the said surety or to his lawful heirs, legal representatives, or assigns as the case
may be:
PROVIDED that the Government may , in its discretion, retain the Security for a
period not exceeding six months after the date on which the Official Receiver quits
the service of the Government or becomes incapable of further service in the said
office or dies, for the purpose of ascertaining or satisfying itself that there has been
no breach or default as aforesaid and that no claim or demand is so outstanding.
Clause VIIl.-- The forfeiture or reconveyance, as the case may be, of the property
secured, shall not in any way, affect, limit or extinguish any other remedy or relief to
which the Government may, at any time, be lawfully entitled against the said Official
Receiver in respect of any thing done or omitted to be done by him as Official
Receiver, either before or after such forfeiture or refund and nothing in this Security
Bond contained, shall be deemed to relieve the Official Receiver from any suit,
prosecution or proceeding to which he may be liable under any law for the time being
in force in respect of anything by him at any time done or omitted.


--- Page 152 ---
145
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the said Official Receiver and the surety have hereunto
subscribed their names at on the

day of
19.

Signed by EE
Official Receiver.
Surety.
Witnesses-
1.
2. SE


--- Page 153 ---
146

PART C -- SUPERVISION AND CONTROL
1. Annual inspection.- Insolvency Judges and District Judges should inspect the
Official Receiver's work once a year.
2. Annual remarks.-- Annual remarks should be recorded on the work and character
of Official Receivers by Insolvency Judges and District Judges.
3. Cash book should be put up daily before the Judge.-- The Cash Book (form
15) should be put up before the Insolvency Judge at the beginning of each day with
the counterfoils of all receipts issued during the previous day, except when the
Official Receiver is away from headquarters, in which case he should put up the
Cash Book on the day following that of his return to the headquarters.
4. Cash book receipt side should be checked by the judge.-- The Insolvency
Judge should check each entry on the receipt side with the corresponding counterfoil
in the Receipt Book or the relevant entry in the Sale List (No. 8) and append his
signatures at the end of the day's entries in the Cash Book as a token of his having
carried out the check.
5. Cash book--Expenditure side should be checked by the Judge.- The
Insolvency Judge should similarly check the entries on the expenditure side of the
Cash Book with the payment vouchers and counterfoils of cheques and sign at the
end of the day's entries on this side of the book also as a token of his check.
6. Monthly inspection of Demand and Collection Register.-- The Demand and
Collection Register (Form No. 7) should be inspected by the Insolvency Judge on the
first working day of each month and it should then be signed and dated by him.
7. Dividend register should be checked by the Judge whenever dividend is
declared.- The Dividend Register No. 19 shall be put up before the Insolvency
Judge when each dividend is declared and the entries shall then be examined,
signed and dated by him at the end.


--- Page 154 ---
147
8. Monthly comparison of Pass Book with cash book by the Judge.-- The
Insolvency Judge should also compare the Pass Book entries with the Cash Book at
the beginning of each month and note the fact of his having done so in the Cash
Book.


--- Page 155 ---
148
PART D -- GENERAL INSTRUCTIONS
Official Receivers' Records
1. A separate record for each case to be kept.-- The official Receiver should
maintain a separate record for each case showing in detail what action was taken on
each day so as to provide a continuous history of the whole administration.
2. The Receiver to record all orders and depositions.-- All orders on these
records should be written out by the Official Receiver in his own handwriting and the
practice of leaving it to clerks to examine the parties or witnesses or to fix dates and
to record any orders must be given up.
3. Parts A and B of the record.-- The record should be maintained in two parts--
Part A for proceedings under section 80 of the Provincial Insolvency Act.
Part B for all other proceedings.
4. Records and registers to be made over to the court on completion. The
Records and Registers of the Official Receivers when complete should be made over
to the Court for being made a part of the Court Records and being consigned to the
Record Room along with them.
5. These records are public records and should not be left with the Receiver
when no longer required.-- The practice by which all such Records are allowed to
remain in the hands of the Official Receiver himself and to be treated more or less
like his personal property should be given up. These records relate to proceedings of
a public nature and must be treated as public documents.
6. Court not to make over its own record to Receiver.-- The practice by which the
Insolvency Courts in some Districts hand over their record to the Official Receiver
and allow him to record his proceedings also in it is very objectionable as the Court
cannot keep in close touch with the progress of administration when it makes over
the whole of its own record to the Official Receiver and retains nothing itself.


--- Page 156 ---
149

7. Index of papers to be maintained.-- An index of papers in form
No. 242, as given at page 2 of Part A-lll, Rules and Orders, Volume VI-A, should be
maintained for all records.
8. The production of records of decided cases from the Record Room should
not ordinarily be allowed. The Official Receivers should not send for the records
of decided cases from the Record Room freely or frequently as they are liable to
damage in transit and use. The object in most cases should be served by calling
upon the parties concerned to produce certified copies of the relevant documents
and the tendency to send for the whole record should be discouraged in all cases
except when it is essential to prove any documents in original.

Destruction of Records
9. List of records and registers to be preserved in perpetuity.-- The following
Registers and Records shall be preserved in perpetuity:-
Form No. 1. Index Register.
Form No. 2. Register of Inmovable Property.
Form No. 7. Demand and Collection Register.
Form No. 8. Sale List of Property.
Form No. 9. Counterfoils of Receipts.
Form No. 14. Register of Receipts and Administration Charges.
Form No. 15. Cash Book.
Form No. 17. Ledger Account.
Form No. 18. Deposit Register.
Form No. 19. Dividend Register.
Form No. 20. List of Office Furniture.
Counterfoils of all cheques.
All audit objections and replies thereto.


--- Page 157 ---
150
10. List of registers to be preserved for 50 years.-- The following Registers shall
be preserved for fifty years from the date of the last entry:-
Form No. 4. Register of Movable Property.
Form No. 5. Register of Debts due to the Insolvent.
Form No. 6. Register of Title deeds.
11. List of record to be preserved for 20 years.-- The following shall be preserved
for twenty years from the date of the last entry and shall then be destroyed:-
Form No. 10. Pay sheet of Establishment.
Form No. 11. Contingent Bills.
Form No. 12. Permanent Account Register.
Form No. 13. Stamp Register.
Form No. 16. Register showing closing balances.
Leases
12. Oral leases not allowed.-- The practice of giving out leases orally is
objectionable. It is imperative that Official Receivers should in all cases obtain a
regular lease-deed from the lessee concerned.
13. Lease in favour of insolvent not approved.-- The practice of leasing out the
land to the insolvent himself for a cash consideration to be paid by him is not
approved. It is seldom that the insolvent can pay the lease money in such cases. The
result is that the insolvent is in effect left entirely undisturbed in the enjoyment of his
property without paying anything to the creditors.
14. Court officials not to bid at sales held by Receiver.-- The officials of
Insolvency Courts are strictly prohibited from bidding for or purchasing anything at
sales held by Official Receivers.
15. Sales by Receiver require no confirmation by court. Sales to be conducted
personally by Receiver except as provided. Official Receivers have full
powers to sell all or part of insolvent's property without confirmation by the Court.
Any person aggrieved by the Official Receiver's action may


--- Page 158 ---
151

appeal to the District Judge as prescribed by law. Such sales should be conducted
by Official Receivers personally. On no account should such sales be carried out by
Official Receivers' clerks except in cases where the property to be sold is situated at
a place difficult of access when it may be sold by the Official Receiver's clerk,
provided that---
(a) the estimated value of the property does not exceed Rs. 2500; or
(b) the Judge of the Insolvency Court certifies that for the Official Receiver to conduct
the sale in person would involve an expenditure of time and money incommensurate
with the importance of the sale ;
(c) the Official Receiver himself remains responsible for the proper carrying out of the
proceedings.
16. On sale Receiver should execute a deed of sale and not issue a sale
certificate.-- When a sale has been held the correct procedure is not for the Official
Receive to issue a certificate (as in the case of a Court sale) but to execute a proper
deed of conveyance conforming with the requirements of the law regarding stamp
duty and registration.
17. Statement of sales to be submitted to Court every month.- The Official
Receivers should submit to the Court a statement of sales conducted by them on the
first working day of each month for the sales conducted during the previous month. It
shall be the duty of the Court to check this statement with the entries in the Cash-
book and the Demand and Collection Register in order to satisfy itself that the
amounts realized have been brought to account and that the balances are being
watched through the Demand and Collection Register. The statement of sales shall
be submitted in Form No.1 given at the end of this Chapter.

Progress Reports
18. Receiver to submit to court after six months progress report of the
administration of estate.-- Each Official Receiver must, after six months from the
date on which an order of adjudication is made, submit to the Court a report in Form
No.2 showing what progress has been made by him to realize and distribute the
assets of the insolvent estates entrusted to him.


--- Page 159 ---
152
19. An estate should be wound up within a year.-- All estates should ordinarily be
wound up within one year from the date of the order of adjudication. After a year the
case must be reported to the District Judge with a special note to explain why the
case could not be finished within the period mentioned above.
History Sheets
20. History sheet of old cases.-- The Official Receivers shall in addition to the
progress reports mentioned above submit to the District Judge each month through
the Insolvency Judge, a detailed history sheet in Form No. 3 given at the end of this
Chapter for the six oldest cases under administration.
Engagement of Lawyers
21. Engagement of a counsel by a Receiver subject to previous sanction of
Court.-- The sanction of the Insolvency Judge to the appointment of a Advocate and
his remuneration shall be obtained under section 59 of the Provincial Insolvency Act
before any counsel is engaged by an Official Receiver.
22. Official Receivers not allowed any fees for cases conducted by
them.-- The Official Receivers cannot charge any fees themselves whenever they
appear in Court in cases entrusted to them as Official Receivers.
Miscellaneous Instructions
23. Pay of insolvent Government servant should be attached
through the Head of Department.-- The pay of a Government servant who has
been adjudged an insolvent must be attached through his Head of Department so
that his superior officers may not be kept in ignorance of his insolvency.
Note:- See rule 5.9 and 5.10 of the Punjab Financial Rule Volume-I read with
appendix 12 printed in Punjab Financial Rules Volume-II.
5.9 (a) The extent to which the emoluments of a Government servant are exempt
from attachment for debt is laid down in section 60(1) of the Code of Civil Procedure
1908. The section is reproduced in Appendix 12.


--- Page 160 ---
153
(b) The following instructions should be observed in recovering amounts from
Government servants on account of attachment orders issued by courts:-
(1) The maximum amount attachable by a Civil Court is calculated on the amount
earned and not on what remains after satisfying any debts due to Government on
account of advances taken under rule.
(2) Any deduction which may have to be made on account of subscriptions to
provident funds recognised by Government, taxes on income payable by the
Government servant and debts to Government should be made from the non-
attachable portion of Government servant's salary.
(3) Recoveries in satisfaction of attachment orders should be made in the order in
which they are received and should be made by the head of the office in the case of
officials. In the case of officers the recoveries should be made by the Treasury
Officer.
Note.1 The cost, if any, of remittance to a court of money realized under its
attachment order should be deducted from the amount realized and the net amount
remitted to the Court.
Note.2 Cases may occur in which the judgment-debtor does not sign the acquittance
roll and intentionally allows his pay to remain undisbursed, or the judgment-debtor
being an officer or Government servant permitted to draw his pay on a separate pay
bill, may refrain from preparing his pay bill and drawing his pay regularly in order to
evade payment on account of an attachment order issued by a Court of Law. In such
circumstances the head of the office or, in the case of Government servant drawing
pay on separate bill, the Administrative Officer of the department concerned may
draw the pay of the judgment-debtor in satisfaction of the attachment order subject to
the prescribed restrictions and remit the amount to the Court concerned. The amount
drawn should be charged in the accounts, the particulars of the attachment order
being cited in the acquittance roll or the pay bill, as the case may be as an authority
for the charge and the court's receipts for the amount should be filed with the
attachment register.
5.10 The liability of pensions to attachment by a Civil Court, is regulated by section II
of Act XXIII of 1871, which runs as follows:-


--- Page 161 ---
154
"No pension granted or continued by Government on political considerations, or on
account of past services or present infirmities or as a compassionate allowance, and
no money due, or to become due, on account of any such pension or allowance,
shall be liable to seizure, attachment or sequestration by process of any court in the
Provinces at the instance of a creditor for any demand against the pensioner, or in
satisfaction of a decree or order of any such Court.
24. Receiver to guard against entry of bogus creditors in the schedule.-- It has
come to notice that a common trick resorted to by some insolvents is to include the
names of several near relatives in the schedule as creditors so as to reduce the
amount available for the genuine creditors. The Official Receivers should remain on
guard against this practice.
25. Balance of one estate not to be used for administration of another estate.
The practice of spending money out of the general balance of other estates in hand
for the administration of any estate which has no balance of its own, is objectionable,
and should not be resorted to.
26. Receiver can not use the service of process servers.-- The Official Receivers
are not entitled to use the services of the process-serving establishment.
27. The Official and Special Receiver shall correspond in matters relating to his
duties and office with the higher authorities only through the Insolvency Judge.
General Irregularities.
28. A list of common irregularities noticed in the work of Receivers.-- The
attention of all Official Receivers is drawn to the following defects which are generally
observed in their accounts and procedure:
(a) The sale price of property sold is not always realized promptly and in some cases
no part of the price is received at all on the date of sale, with the result that
purchasers frequently go back on their bids and fresh sales have to be held.
(b) The Administration of the Estates is kept pending even when the amount in hand
is not sufficient to declare any practical dividend. Steps should be taken to have the
amounts lapsed to Government in such cases and the estate wound up.


--- Page 162 ---
155

(€) The documents produced in proof of debts are not marked or
exhibited with the result that sometimes the same document is
used by the creditor to prove the same debt more tun once.

(d) Official Receivers retain undelivered cheques in their hands for
long periods. All such cheques should be cancelled if the
creditors concerned do not turn up within the normal period of
three months during which a cheque remains current.

(€) The permanent advance Is not recouped regularly at the end of

‘ each month,

[14] Applications for the sanction of the High Court of the
emertainment of the Official Receivers Establishment are not
submitted in time, *

FORM NO. |.
STATEMENT OF SALES.
Month eee
Reference Reference W page
~$.No. Desciipion Amoum 0 page of Dewan and
af propery realised of Cash Book Collection
Regier


--- Page 163 ---
156
FORM NO. 2
PROGRESS REPORT OF INSOLVENTS' ESTATES
DistriCt------=mmmmmemeeee neocon
Period of report------------------nnnvnnuenen
Serial No.
Name of insolvent.
Date of adjudication.
Assets
1. Total estimated value of assets.
2. Assets realized hitherto.
3. Assets realized during period of report.
4. Estimated value of assets yet unrealized.
Proof of debts
1. Amount of debts in petition.
2. Debts proved hitherto.
3. Debts proved during period of report.
Distribution
1. Total liabilities.
2. Amount distributed as dividend hitherto.
3. Amount distributed during period of report.
4. Balance in hand.
Remarks
1. Official Receiver's explanation as to delay, etc.
2. Remarks of Insolvency Judge.


--- Page 164 ---
157
FORM NO, 3.
HISTORY SHEET
Name of Estate
Date of adjudication
Dac | Abstract of proceedings
Signature of the Official Receiver.


--- Page 165 ---
158
CHAPTER 6
PROBATE, ADMINISTRATION AND
SUCCESSION CERTIFICATES
PART A -- PROBATE AND ADMINISTRATION
Reference to Succession Act, 1925.--
The present law of Probate, Administration and Succession Certificates is contained
in Succession Act of 1925 as further amended by Act XI of 1926, Acts X, XII and
XVIII of 1927 and Acts XVIII and XXI of 1929 and XVII of 1931. The references below
are to the Act of 1925.
2. Inventory of property and assets and debts and accounts to be put in.--
A person to whom a grant of Probate or Letters of Administration is made is required
to file a full and true inventory of the property and credits of the estate and of all the
debts owing by any person in Court within six months, or such further time as the
Court may allow from the date of the grant and to render accounts within one year, or
such further time as the Court may allow (section 317).
3. Form for grant of Probate and Letters of Administration.--
The from in which the grant of Probate is to be made will be found in Schedule VI to
the Act and that for the grant of Letters of Administration in Schedule VII.
4. Copy of Section 317 prescribing penalty for not filing inventory and accounts
to be given.--
The duty of an Executor or Administrator in regard to the exhibiting of an inventory
and account and the penalty to which such Executor or Administrator becomes liable
for omission to comply with the requisition is detailed in section 317 of the Act, and
this section is printed in small type at the foot of the form of grant prescribed by the
High Court. If for any reason the printed form is not used a copy of section 317
should be delivered to the person receiving the grant so that there may be no excuse
for failure to comply with the requirements of the law.
5. Probate or Letters should be surrendered on revocation of grant.--
Section 296 provides that when a grant is revoked or annulled under section 263 the
Probate or Letters of Administration must be surrendered to the


--- Page 166 ---
159
Court by the person to whom they were granted and a penalty is prescribed for
failure to comply with this requisition.
6. Case in which Probate or Letters are conclusive in the whole of Pakistan.--
In respect of estates in which the value of the property affected beyond the limits of
the Province does not exceed Rs. ‘[1,00,000] and the deceased at the time of his
death had his fixed place of abode within the jurisdiction of a District Judge the grant
of Probate or Letters of Administration by the District Judge has effect throughout
Pakistan (section 273).
7. Procedure where Probate or Letters have to take effect throughout Pakistan.-
Section 274 of the Act prescribes the transmission to High Courts and District Judges
of certificates of grants having effect throughout Pakistan.
*[Where the grant of Probate or Letters of Administration has or have been made by
a High Court, it shall send a certificate thereof to each of the other High Courts; and
where such a grant has or have been made by a District Judge, to the Lahore High
Court and to each of the other High Courts.]
8. Amount and locality of assets beyond the province to be stated.--
Sections 276 and 278 of the Act require applicants to state the amount and locality of
assets situated [both within] and outside the Province.
9. Applicants to state in some cases whether Probate or Letters have been
applied for elsewhere.--
Section 279 requires applicants, in certain cases, to state whether or not application
for Probate or Letters of Administration has been made to any other Court.
10. Case where copy of citation to be issued outside Province.--
Section 283 directs the issue of a copy of the citation outside the Province to the
District Judge in whose jurisdiction the property is situated.
*[11. Inventory to include property in any part of Pakistan in certain cases.--
Section 318 directs the inclusion in the inventory of the deceased's assets of all his
properties in any part of Pakistan, where the grant has been made having effect
throughout Pakistan.]
*[12. Certificate where Probate or Letters are effective throughout Pakistan.--
When a grant of Probate or Letters of Administration is made by a


--- Page 167 ---
160

District Judge and it is intended that the grant is to have effect throughout Pakistan, a
certificate in the following terms should be endorsed at the foot of such grant, as
required by section 273, namely:-
"Certified that the value of the property effected beyond the limits of the Punjab by
the foregoing grant does not exceed ten thousand rupees.

(S11 ——

District Judge."]
13. Rules framed under sections 223 and 226 of the Act.—-
In exercise of the powers conferred by sections 223 and 236 of the Succession Act,
1925 (XXXIX of 1925) the Governor-General in Council is pleased to made the
following rules:-
1. In these rules-
(a) "Share capital " includes stock; and
(b) "Trust business" means the business of acting as trustee under wills and
settlement and as executor and administrator.
2. The conditions to be satisfied by a company in order to render it eligible for the
grant of probate or letters of administration under the ““[Omitted] Succession Act,
1925, shall be the following namely:-
(1) The Company shall be either-
(a) a company formed and registered under the Companies Ordinance 1984, the
Companies Act, 1913, or under the Companies Act, 1866, or under any Act or Acts
repealed thereby, or under the Companies Act, 1882, or a company formed under
any other Act of the Governor-General in Council or of the Pakistan Legislature, or
(b) a company constituted under the law of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and
Northern Ireland or any part thereof, and having a place of business in Pakistan, or
(c) a company established by Royal Charter and having a place of business in
Pakistan. *
(2) The company shall be a company empowered by its constitution to undertake
trust business.


--- Page 168 ---
161
(3) The company shall have a share capital for the time being subscribed of not less
than--
(a) Rs. 10 lakhs in the case of a company of the description specified in sub-clause
(a) of clause (1) and
(b) 100,000 British Pounds in the case of a company of the description specified in
sub-clause (b) of clause (1) of which at least one-half shall have been paid up in
cash.
Provided that the Governor-General in Council may exempt any company from the
operation of this clause.


--- Page 169 ---
162

PART B -- SUCCESSION CERTIFICATES
Introductory.-- The following instructions are issued regarding the grant of
certificates for the collection of debts on succession which previously were dealt with
under the Succession Certificate Act, 1889. The provisions of that Act are now
incorporated in the Succession Act, 1925.
2. Civil Judges empowered to grant certificates.- All Civil Judges of the first and
second class have been invested with the functions of a District Court for the
purposes of granting succession certificates by Punjab Government Notification
No.781, dated 15th July 1914, which continues to be in force--(vide General Clauses
Act, 1897, section 24).
Forum of Appeal.-- Applications under Part X of the Succession Act, 1925, will
usually be dealt with by Civil Judges and appeals from their orders granting, refusing
or revoking certificates will lie to the District Judge. When a District Judge finds it
necessary to deal with any application under the Act as an original Court the appeal
will lie to the High Court under Section 384, sub-section (1) of the Act.
3. Turning to the procedure prescribed by the Act the following points should be
borne in mind-
(a) Succession Certificate, etc., should be obtained by an heir for recovery of
debts due to a deceased person. A Civil Court is prohibited in all cases from
passing or executing a decree in a suit by or upon the application of a person
claiming to be entitled to recover a debt or decree in favour of any person deceased,
without the production of a probate or letters of administration, or a succession
certificate granted under the Succession Act of 1889, or the Succession Act of 1925,
or a certificate granted under the Administrator-General Act, Ill of 1913. In this
connection attention is also drawn to the provisions of Order VII, Rule 4, of the Code
of Civil Procedure, as to plaintiff's suing in a representative character. The grant of a
probate, letters of administration or a succession certificate is not, however, an
essential condition precedent to the institution of a suit, but the


--- Page 170 ---
163
requisite probate, letters or certificate must be produced before the passing of a
decree.
In the case of a Joint Hindu family when property passes by survivorship, no
succession certificate is necessary (ef.,20 P.R., 1901)
(b) Definition of debt.-- The word "debt" as used in section 214, sub-section (1), is
defined to include any debt except rent, revenue or profits payable in respect of land
used for agricultural purposes. The prohibition imposed on the Civil Courts does not
therefore extend to Revenue Courts when dealing with suits under these heads
(section 214, sub-section (2) ).
Certificate for a fraction of the debt.-- There was a difference of opinion amongst
the High Courts as to whether a certificate could be granted with respect to a fraction
of a debt but now by Act XIV of 1928 grant of such a certificate is made legal.
(c) Application for a Succession Certificate to be signed and verified. Its
contents.-- The particulars to be specified in an application for a certificate are
specified in section 372, and every application requires to be signed and verified in
accordance with the provisions of the Code of Civil Procedure applicable to plaints;
and subsection (2) of this section prescribes the manner of dealing with allegations
contained in the application which may be found to be false. As the application now
partakes of the nature of a verified plaint, great care should be taken to insist on its
being properly and concisely drawn up, and that it is complete in regard to the
matters required by section 372.
(d) Manner of inquiry and security to be taken from the grantee of certificate.--
The proceedings in hearing applications may be summary to some extent, in that
intricate questions of law and fact need not be gone into, the person having the
best title prima facie being granted the certificate. At the same time, the court is
not relieved of the obligation to hear the parties and take sufficient evidence
to enable it to decide who is the person best entitled to a certificate, as well as
all other points which may ordinarily be necessary to enable it to dispose of
the petition. If the summary power conferred by section 373, subsection (3), is
followed in any case, the court is bound to demand


--- Page 171 ---
164
security from the person to whom it proposes to grant the certificate as a condition
precedent to such grant.
(e) Objections to application. Procedure in case of several claimants for a
certificate.-- Persons objecting to an application by another person can be heard
without themselves becoming applicants, but every person opposing an application
who claims a certificate for himself, must file a proper application in the manner
prescribed by section 372. Every such application must be disposed of by a separate
order; but the question of right to a certificate among several applicants will generally
be most conveniently heard in a single proceeding between the contending parties;
(f) Points to be considered in deciding the cases of rival claimants.-- In deciding
which of several applicants is entitled to a certificate, it is open to the court to
consider the extent of interest and the fitness in other respects of the several
applicants;
(9) Application and certificate to contain details of debts and securities.
Extension and amendment of the certificate.-- The debts and securities in respect
of which a certificate is applied for must be detailed at length in the application and
also in the certificate and the certificate must be limited in terms to the debts and
securities specified in the application and also in the certificate-[section 372, sub-
section (1), clause (f) and section (374)]. At the same time, the court is empowered
(by section 376) to extend the certificate, on the application of the holder thereof, to
any debt or security not originally specified therein, and otherwise to amend the
certificate (section 378).
4. Form and contents of certificate.-- The particulars required in the certificate are
specified in section 374, and the forms are prescribed by section 377, and will be
found in schedule VIII. Courts should be careful to see that certificates are properly
framed and that all necessary particulars and powers are duly inserted in the first
instance, so as to obviate the necessity for subsequent amendment of the certificate.
5. Requisition of security from grantee of certificate.~- It has already been
pointed out that, in any case in which a court proposes to grant a certificate upon
summary inquiry, without determining any intricate question of


--- Page 172 ---
165
law or fact which may be involved, security must be taken under section 375, sub-
section (1), from the person to whom it is proposed to grant a certificate before it is
granted. The same remark applies to action under section 373, subsection (4), of the
Act, namely, when there are more applicants than one for a certificate, and more
than one of them are found to be interested in the estate. It is, however, open to the
court to demand security in any other case.
6. Court-fees in cash on application for a certificate or for its extension.—-
Attention is drawn to the provisions as to court-fees contained in section 379 of the
Succession Act, 1925, as substituted by the West Pakistan Amendment Ordinance
No.XXXI of 1965. Where the District Judge allows an application for the grant of a
certificate or for the extension of certificate, he shall calculate the amount of court-fee
payable under the Court Fees Act, 1870, on the certificate or the extension of
certificate and shall not grant the certificate or the extension of the certificate until the
Court-fee so calculated has been paid by the applicant.
The amount of court-fee should be calculated according to the law in force on the
date of the application, and it is not affected by any subsequent change in the law.
No specific procedure for obtaining or sale of the court-fee by or to the applicants for
the grant of succession certificates has been prescribed and the general procedure in
this behalf has to be followed.
#7. Conclusiveness of certificate.~ A succession certificate under the Act has
effect throughout Pakistan (section 380).]
8. Revocation of certificate.-- Provision is made in section 383 for revoking
#[Succession] Certificate on certain grounds which are specified.
9. Grant of Probate or Letters supersedes succession certificate.~- Under
Section 215, a grant of Probate or Letters of Administration, supersedes a
#ISuccession] Certificate granted under Part X of the Succession Act, 1925, or under
the Succession Certificate Act, 1889.
10. Decision in Succession Certificate proceedings does not operate as res
judicata.-- By Section 387 of the Act, no decision, given in dealing with an
application “[for the grant of a Succession Certificate] under the


--- Page 173 ---
166

Act, upon any question of right between any parties, bars the settlement of the same
question by a competent Civil Court.

11. Surrender of the certificate if it is invalid or has been superseded.-- By
section 389, the holder of a Succession Certificate, which has been superseded or is
invalid from any of the causes mentioned in section 386, is bound to deliver it up on
being required to do so by the court which granted it and may be punished for wilfully
or without reasonable cause omitting to do so.


--- Page 174 ---
167
PART C -- ADMINISTRATION OF THE ESTATES OF DECEASED MILITARY
OFFICERS
1. Introductory.-- The following directions are issued on the subject of the
administration of the estates of Military Officers dying *[during] service, and the
course to be pursued by District Officers on the occasion of the death of a Military
Officer in Civil employ.
2. Reference to law.-- The law is contained in the Regimental Debts Act, 1893, 56
and 57 Vic., Chap. 5, and in the Royal Warrant and Regulations made under the Act.
3. Committee of adjustment, its appointment and duty.-- The distribution of the
effects of a Military Officer dying *[during] service pertains to the Military Department,
and a special agency for dealing with the estate is provided in the appointment of the
Committee of Adjustment. The appointment of the Committee of Adjustment rests
with the Military authorities, and it is the duty of the Committee to secure the effects
of the deceased.
4. Duty of District Officers.- District Officers are not required by law to interfere in
any way with such estates. They will, of course, when duly required, lend all proper
aid to the Committee of Adjustment. On the occasion of the death of a Military Officer
in civil employ, the Deputy Commissioner of the District should immediately report
the fact, through the Commissioner, to the Military Officer Commanding the District,
retaining the property, if necessary, under his charge until a Committee of
Adjustment has been appointed. All further steps will be taken by the Military
authorities.


--- Page 175 ---
168

PART D -- THE ADMINISTRATION OF ESTATES OF CITIZENS OF FOREIGN
COUNTRIES DYING IN PAKISTAN
Attention is drawn to the following Notification of the Central Government in this
connection:-
Central Government Notification in the Home Department No. F. 620/32, dated the
25th July, 1932 as amended by F. 594/36, dated the 3rd September 1936:-
In exercise of the power conferred by section 57 of the Administrator-General's Act,
1913 (Ill of 1913) and in supersession of the Notification of the Government of India
in the Home Department, No. 270, dated the 11th February, 1903, the Governor-
General in Council is pleased to direct that where a subject of a state specified in the
schedule hereto annexed dies in ‘[British India], and it appears that there is no one in
‘[British India], other than the Administrator-General, entitled to apply to a Court of
competent jurisdiction for letters of administration of the estate of the deceased,
letters of administration shall, on the application to such Court of any Consular
Officer of such state, be granted to such Consular Officer on such terms and
conditions as the Court may, subject to the following rules, think fit to impose,
namely:-
(1) Where the deceased has not left in ‘[British India] any known heirs or
testamentary executors, by him appointed, the local authorities, if any, in possession
of the property of the deceased, shall at once communicate the circumstances to the
nearest Consular Officer of the state of which the deceased was a subject in order
that the necessary information may be immediately forwarded to persons interested.
(2) Such Consular Officer shall have the right to appear, personally or by delegate, in
all proceedings on behalf of the absent heirs or creditors of the deceased until they
are otherwise represented.

Schedule
1. United States of America.
2. Argentine Republic.


--- Page 176 ---
169
3. Belgium.
4. Costa Rica.
5. Denmark.
6. Netherlands.
7. Persia.
8. Peru.
9. Poland.
10. Sweden.


--- Page 177 ---
170
CHAPTER 7
PRESERVATION OF WILLS
PART A -- RULES
Punjab Government Notification No. 2649-Judicial, dated the 21st January 1929, as
amended by No. 15397-Judicial, dated the 23rd April, 1929, and No. 4649-J-
41/43006, dated 31-7-1941, prescribes the following Regulations for the preservation
and inspection of Wills, under Section 294 of the Indian Secession Act, 1925.
1. Preservation and custody by District Judge granting Probate or letter.--
Every District Judge shall file and preserve all original Wills of which probate or
letters of administration with the Will annexed may be granted by him.
2. Fire-proof box to be provided.
For the preservation of such Wills each District will be supplied with a fire-proof box,
which shall be kept for safe custody in the Government Treasury, or, where the
Treasury is situated at a distance from the court, at such other place as the District
Judge considers to be adequately protected in all respects.
3. Action to be taken before depositing the will in the box.--
When probate or letters of administration have been granted by the District Judge
as aforesaid, the Will shall be detached from the file of proceedings relating to the
grant of such probate or letters of administration, and after being endorsed with
the name of the Testator, the date of the Will, the date of granting probate or letters
of administration, the names and description of the persons to whim probate or
letters of administration have been granted, the number of the file relating to the Will
in the General District Register, and the number of the Will in the Register of
Deposited Wills, shall be deposited in the fire-proof box.
4. Register of deposited Wills, Index.--
The District Judge shall keep in English a Register of Deposited Wills,
which shall be in the following form, and shall contain the particulars
endorsed on the deposited Wills. An


--- Page 178 ---
171
alphabetical index shall be prepared at the end of each year to the entries made
in the Register:
S.No Nuwbur of tie w Dhawe of pramting | pevrtusss or denters of | Nose il | Nossarny.
of Wa | Dwi Geneod probate ur Resse | whiimsirasan have | ever
Mepis of admirraen been gran

5. Procedure for obtaining inspection of the register.— Any
person desirous of inspecting the Register of Deposited Wills shall be permitted
10 do so on his presenting an application (0 that cffect to the District Judge,
Such application shall be written on a stamp paper of the value of one rupee,
and shall set forth the name, residence and occupation of the applicant with his
reason for desiring to inspect the Register

6. Procedure for obtaining inspection of the Will.— Any person
desirous of inspecting a deposited Will shall be perminted to do so on his
presenting an application fo that effect to the District Judge, accompanied with a
fee of one rupee. The application shall be written on a stamp paper of the value
of one rupee, and shall set forth the particulars specified in the preceding rule.

7. Hour and manner of inspection. The inspection of (he
Register of Deposited Wills or of a deposited Will, may be made between the
hours of 11 A.M. and 3 P.M. on every diy except suthorized holidays. and
shall take place in the presence of the District Judge or of an officer exercising
the powers of a Civil Judge, deputed by the District Judge for the purpose, The
applicant shall not be permitted, while making the inspection, to have pen and
ink in his possession, but he may be allowed the use of pencil and paper for
purpose of taking notes

8. Procedure for obtaining copy of the Will.— Any person
desirous of obtinng a copy of a deposited Will shall present an application to
that effect to the District Judge, accompanied with a fee of five rupees. Such
application shall be written on a stamp paper of the value of two rupees, and
shall contain the name, residence and occupation of the upplicant. with the


--- Page 179 ---
172
interest, if any which he has in the Will, or his reason for applying for a copy. The
copy shall be made at the expense of the applicant, and shall be certified under the
seal and signature of the District Judge.
9. Application for inspection of copies to be placed on record and noted in the
register of wills.--
Applications for inspections or copies shall be filed with the proceedings connected
with the grant of probate or letters of administration of the Will to which they relate;
and in the Register of Deposited Wills an entry shall be made in the column headed
"Remarks"--
"Inspected by on
19------, or, "copy given to", as the case may be.
10. Fees realized how to be credited. Expenses how to be met.--
All fees other than copying fees realised in cash under these regulations should
forthwith be credited into the Treasury under the head *[1200000-Receipts from
Administration and Other Functions; 1230000-Law & Order Receipts; 1231000-
Justice; 1231002-Justice Court Fees realised in cash (73)]. The expenditure required
by the District Judge for the preservation and inspection of the Wills under his
custody, may be drawn in the same manner as ordinary contingent expenditure.
11. Foregoing rules also apply to High Court granting probate or letters.--
The foregoing rules shall apply mutatis mutandis to Wills of which probate or letters
of administration with the Will annexed may be granted by the Lahore High Court,
Lahore.


--- Page 180 ---
173

PART B -- KEYS OF WILL SAFES
1. Inconvenience and expenses resulting from loss of keys.-- Several instances
have occurred in which the keys of the iron safes, provided for the custody of Wills in
districts, under the rules contained in Punjab Government Notification No. 2649-Judl.,
dated the 21st January, 1929, have been lost or mislaid; and in each instance it has
been found impossible to fix the responsibility for the loss on any particular officer, as
the charge of the keys has not been formally transferred when changes of District
Judges have taken place. Much inconvenience has resulted, and the Government
has been put to considerable expense.
2. District Judge on transfer should make over the keys and Treasurer's receipt
for duplicate to his successor.-- Each safe is provided with duplicate keys, one of
which should be retained in the custody of the District Judge, the other being placed
in a securely sealed cover and deposited in the District Treasury Strong Room, the
Treasurer's receipt for it being filed in the District Judge's office. When a District
Judge is transferred he should make over the key of the safe and the Treasurer's
receipt for the duplicate to his successor, and record that he has done so on the
transfer of charge papers sent to the High Court.
3. Duty of the District Judge to take over charge of the keys.-- The District Judge
for the time being will be held strictly responsible for the keys of the safe, and any
officer taking over charge of the office of District Judge without taking over the keys,
or reporting that they have not been made over, will be brought to account if at any
time the keys are not forthcoming, and may have to bear the cost incurred by
Government in having the safe broken open and in providing a new one.
4. Loss of keys should be reported to High Court. If a key is lost the fact should
at once be reported to the High Court with a full explanation of the circumstances.


--- Page 181 ---
174
CHAPTER 8
CIVIL COURTS ACCOUNTS
PART A -- GENERAL
1. Responsibility of Judicial Officers for supervision --
The institution of the Director General Audit, Punjab does not relieve officers of the
duty of supervising Nazirs, cashiers, or other clerks in regard to their fiduciary duties
connected with the attachment and sale of property, the expenses of witnesses in
civil and criminal cases, the disposal of unclaimed property and fines, and the receipt
and disbursement of sums paid into Court in execution of decree and miscellaneous
civil and criminal proceedings without any sort of check or control on the part of the
Judicial Officers who are primarily responsible for the due performance by them of
these duties.
#[2. Personal responsibility of officers for loss caused by negligence of law
and rules, or supervision.--
Rule 2.33 of Punjab Financial Rules, Volume | (Financial Hand Book NO. ll) is re-
produced for general information:-
"2.33. Every Government servant should realise fully and clearly that he will be held
personally responsible for any loss sustained by Government through fraud or
negligence on his part, and that he will also be held personally responsible for any
loss arising from fraud or negligence on the part of any other Government Servant to
the extent to which it may be shown that he contributed to the loss by his own action
or negligence. (See rule 2.10(a)(1). A memorandum regarding (1) general principles
to regulate the enforcement of responsibility for losses sustained by Government
through fraud or negligence of individuals, (2) the procedure to be followed in
prosecutions in respect of the embezzlement of Government money and (3) the
procedure to be observed for conducting departmental enquiry is given in Part 1 of
Appendix 2 to these rules."]
3. Periodical inspection of accounts: Instructions re pecuniary transactions.--
Controlling Judicial Officers are required periodically to inspect, in a thorough and
complete manner, the various registers and accounts maintained by Nazirs, cashiers
or other clerks; and every officer presiding over


--- Page 182 ---
175
a court (whether civil or criminal) is further required to have all pecuniary
transactions conducted under his personal direction and attested by himself.
Note:-
For rules affecting the Nazarat under the control of the District Magistrate, see
Chapter 10, Punjab District Office Manual.
4. Checking of registers relating to pecuniary transactions by the presiding
officers.—-
In order to ensure careful examination of the accounts kept at the courts at
headquarters as well as at tahsils, every officer presiding over a court (whether civil
or criminal) should examine and check the registers of his court relating to pecuniary
transactions and the custody of property, frequently and at least once a month, and
should enter his initials and the date, after the last entry found in them. In discharging
this duty, it is necessary to have each entry verified by the voucher which has been
attested by the Judge and which is required to be placed on the record of the case to
which the entry relates.
5. Special attention towards state of registers and accounts of Nazirs.--
The state of the registers and accounts of Nazirs, etc., should receive special notice
in the reports of inspecting officers.
6. Pecuniary transactions with litigants should be taken up thrice a day.--
(a) For purposes of pecuniary transactions with litigants in respect of the Sheriffs
Petty Accounts and Civil Court Deposit Accounts, the rules for which are given
respectively in parts D and E of this Chapter, the Officer-in-charge of the Nazarat or
the Presiding Officer of the Court as the case may be, should interrupt his court work
daily three times at fixed hours in order to dispose of all pecuniary transactions.
(b). Public notice as to monetary transactions in Court.-- Notices in English and
#[Urdu] should be posted on the Court's notice-board warning litigants in respect of
deposits in the Sheriffs Petty Accounts and in the Civil Court Deposit Accounts (cash
system) that--
(a) money should only be paid in the presence of the Officer-in-charge of the Nazarat
or the Presiding Officer of the Court, as the case may be;
(b) incomplete receipts should be guarded against; and


--- Page 183 ---
176
(c) receipts are not valid unless signed by the Officer-in-charge of the Nazarat or the
Presiding Officer of the Court, as the case may be.
In Courts in which the Civil Court Deposit Accounts (voucher system) is applicable,
the notices should warn litigants that money will only be deposited by themselves in
the local Treasury on challans given to them by the Court and that the receipts are
not valid unless signed by the Treasury Officer.
7. Postal Money orders. Money received during leave or absence of the
presiding officer.—-
The rules for Sheriffs Petty Accounts and Civil Court Deposit Accounts (cash and
voucher systems) provide for the receipt of money in a court by postal money order.
The procedure laid down in those rules must be strictly followed for all postal money
orders, as it is with regard to money so received by a court that defalcation may
occur if the procedure is not followed. It is the duty of presiding officers of courts to
make adequate arrangements for the receipt of money orders during their absence
and they are responsible for seeing with the least possible delay on their return to
duty that money so received during their absence is duly brought to account.
8. Daily checking of Cash-books.--
Before leaving office each day, the presiding officers of all courts shall check the
cash balances in the hands of the Nazir or cashier and other clerks entrusted with the
duty of maintaining accounts of monetary transactions with cash book or cash books
of the court which such official or officials maintain. They shall sign the books daily in
token of check. Separate cash books are maintained as under:-


--- Page 184 ---
177
=n F— Autorsy
h
Sterts Penty Accounts Civil Naear, or NasNazw, | Chapter 8, Volume Ii
or Cashier. a» the case Ruies and Onder,
may be.
Civil Coust Deponit Accounts | Digio Chapter 8-E. Volume 1
 Cupy Agency Accounts in Enamnr, ur sense copyst | Chagases 17-C und (7.0
District and Seyveons where no examimer exisis Volume IV, Rules ang
Couns and Court af Smal)
Cassar
 ARuther less, 5. pay of | Civil Natie, oe Naib-Nazle, | (Chapter 1 Pars |, Prasat
WT, Gontimgracies. exc or Cashier, a he case Fancial Rules Volume {.)
may be.

9. Checking in the Court of District and Sessions Judge. In the
Court of District and Sessions Judge, the Superintendent being the senior
ministerial servant is responsible for checking the work of his subordinates,
including the Nazir, and for seeing that the accounts arc properly maintained
and that all financial rules are observed.


--- Page 185 ---
178

PART B -- AUDIT
1. Annual Audit.~- The Sheriffs Petty Accounts, the Civil Court Deposit Accounts
(cash system), the Copy Agency Accounts (District and Sessions Judges' Courts and
Court of Small Causes), and the Accounts of property made over to the Nazir for
custody, will be audited as far as possible once a year under the orders of the
‘Director General Audit, Punjab.]
2. Papers to be placed at the disposal of Auditors.-- Presiding Officers of Courts
should cause to be placed at the disposal of the auditors all account registers,
documents, etc., as well as any subsidiary papers which may be required by the
audit officers.
3. Audit note to be sent to Court concerned and higher officers.-- The results of
audit will be communicated in printed or typed audit and inspection notes to the
Courts concerned, to the District and Sessions Judge, and to the High Court.
4. Prompt attention to Audit notes.-- Presiding Officers of Courts, the Senior Civil-
Judge where he is the immediate, controlling officer, and the District and Sessions
Judge should deal promptly with these audit and inspection notes. The action taken
should be recorded on an interleaved copy or on the margin of the notes. Copies of
these annotated notes should be forwarded to the ‘[Director General Audit, Punjab]
and to the High Court, through the immediate controlling officers, if any, and the
District and Sessions Judge; and a copy should also be kept and produced for the
information of the inspecting officer. The [observation] statement which accompanies
the audit and inspection note should, after the [observation] recorded therein have
been replied to, be kept and put up before the auditors at their next visit.
5. Inquiry embezzlement, loss of property, etc: Report to Accountant-General:
Final report to High Court.-- (a) Whenever an embezzlement, loss of property,
fraud, or grave irregularity likely to lead thereto, is discovered, enquiries shall be
instituted at once by the Presiding Officer of the Court and at the same time a report
made to the High Court through the immediate controlling officer, if any, and the
District and Sessions Judge.


--- Page 186 ---
179
Such cases as involve more than Rs. 200 or present important features which merit
detailed investigation or consideration will also be reported by the
presiding officer through the District and Sessions Judge to the Accountant-General
as required by ‘Rule 2.34 read with annexure of Chapter 2, Punjab Financial Rules,]
Volume I.
(b) In submitting final reports, the following points will be reported on to the High
Court:-
(1) The exact nature of the defalcation.
(2) The full extent of the loss.
(3) The actual period covered by the defalcation.
(4) The defects in or neglect of rules by which the loss was rendered possible and
the circumstances which facilitated the defalcations.
(5) The names of the officials held personally or technically, directly or indirectly, and
wholly or partly responsible for the loss and irregularities committed, and the
disciplinary action taken or proposed to be taken against each.
(6) Whether the case has been tried judicially or not, and if not, why? If so, three
copies of the judgment should be forwarded.
(7) The remedial measures adopted as safeguards against recurrence of such
defalcations or irregularities.
(8) The prospects of recovery of the loss.
‘[Rules 2.33, 2.34 and 2.35 of the Punjab Financial Rules Volume |, as well the
annexure and memoranda issued under these Rules shall be carefully followed. The
Rules are reproduced in the Appendix to this chapter.]
6. Irregularities: Refund of money kept out of account not allowed.-- Experience
has shown that presiding officers frequently fail to take any effective action when
irregularities are brought to their notice. There must be a complete investigation
of every complaint made to a presiding officer. In no case may a subordinate
official be allowed to refund money which has been


--- Page 187 ---
180

kept out of account without a report to the higher authorities. Any such permission
given by a presiding officer will be treated as a gross breach of discipline.
7. Destruction of records relating to audit.~- No records or documents filed in any
Courts' accounts should be destroyed till a period of [two] years has elapsed since
they were last audited, and if at the last audit any objection or remark was raised in
connection with any record or document, such should be retained until the next audit
and not be destroyed until [two] years has elapsed since the removal of the objection
originally raised.
This does not apply to those records which under the rules of the Court form part of a
case and are filed with the Court.

APPENDIX
2.33. Every Government servant should realise fully and clearly that he will be held
personally responsible for any loss sustained by Government through fraud or
negligence on his part, and that he will also be held personally responsible for any
loss arising from fraud or negligence on the part of any other Government servant to
the extent to which it may be shown that he contributed to the loss by his own action
or negligence. (See rule 210 (a) (1). A memorandum regarding (1) general principles
to regulate the enforcement of responsibility for losses sustained by Government
through fraud or negligence of individuals, (2) the procedure to be followed in
prosecutions in respect of the embezzlement of Government money and (3) the
procedure to be observed for conducting departmental enquiry is given in Part 1 of
Appendix 2 to these rules.
2.34. The instructions for reporting to Accountant-General or the Director Audit &
Accounts (Works) defalcations and losses and remissions of and abandonment of
claims to, revenue,--(vide rule 4.6) are contained in the Annexure to this Chapter.
The directions issued by the Auditor-General of Pakistan regulating the exhibition of
losses in Government accounts are given in Chapter 6 of Account Code, Volume I.
2.35. (1) The preliminary report prescribed by the rules in the Annexure to
this Chapter notifying the occurrence of a defalcation or loss of


--- Page 188 ---
181
public money in a treasury should be submitted by the Deputy Commissioner
concerned to--
(i) the Accountant-General direct;
(ii) the Government unless the case is unimportant; and
(iii) The Head of the Department through the controlling officer.
With regard to the final complete report which is also required by the orders, the
Deputy Commissioner should submit his report to controlling officer who will forward
it to the Accountant General for submission to Government through the Head of the
Department.
(2) Losses occurring in offices, as soon as they occur or come to notice, should be at
once reported, through the immediate departmental superior of the Government
servant reporting the loss, to the Head of the Department concerned, with a
statement of the steps taken in matter. When the matter has been fully inquired into a
further and complete report should be submitted of the nature and extent of the loss
showing the errors or neglect of rules by which such loss was rendered possible and
the prospects of effecting a recovery. The report on a loss occurring in the office of a
Head of a Department may be submitted direct to Government. It is always open to a
Head of a Department to obtain the advice or opinion of the Accountant-General
Director Audit and Accounts (Works) on any loss occurring in his own office or in an
office under his control if it is likely to be of use in preventing their occurrence in
future.
(3) Rules dealing with losses and defalcation in stamp revenue, are contained in the
Punjab Stamps Losses and Defalcations Rules, 1935 reproduced in Part Il of
Appendix 2.
(4) In regard to any loss of money belonging to a municipality, small town committee
or notified area it should be reported by the President or the
Executive Officer where such an officer has been appointed direct to the Deputy
Commissioner and to the Director, Local Fund Audit. Intimation may also be
sent at the discretion of the Deputy Commissioner to the Commissioner of the
Divisions who shall, if he deems it necessary, submit a complete report to
Government showing the total sum of money misappropriated, the method in


--- Page 189 ---
182
which the embezzlement was effected and the steps taken to recover the money and
punish the offenders.
Losses occurring in the funds of Zilla Council should be reported by the Chairman to
the Director Local Fund Audit and also through the Deputy Commissioner to the
Commissioner.


--- Page 190 ---
183
PART C -- RULES FOR THE MAINTENANCE OF ACCOUNTS IN REGARD TO
SUMS DEPOSITED IN COURTS UNDER SECTION 31 (2) OF THE LAND
ACQUISITION ACT AS COMPENSATION PAYABLE TO PERSONS WITH
RESTRICTED POWERS OF ALIENATION, ETC.
1. Money paid under section 31 of the Act to be deposited in the Treasury.
Money paid into the District Court under section 31 of the Land Acquisition Act, must
be lodged into the Treasury as a Revenue or Civil Court deposit under the rules
applicable to such deposits, until its investment as required by section 32 ibid.
2. Register of such deposits to be maintained.- A register shall be maintained in
each District Court to show the Receipt and disposal of deposits made therein by the
Land Acquisition Officer under section 31 (2) of the Land Acquisition Act on behalf of
minors, widows, and any other persons to whom the deposits cannot be paid on
disposal of the case.
3. Contents of the register. This register shall contain particulars as to the name
of each person to whom compensation is payable, the case, the amount and the final
disposal thereof either by investment or by payment to guardian or purchase of land,
etc,
4. Procedure for disposal of money deposited.-- After the deposits are made and
brought on the register, the Courts shall proceed to take action in regard to the
investment or disposal of money deposited in accordance with the instruction
contained in sections 32, 33 and 34 of the Land Acquisition Act.
5. Account to be opened when money is invested otherwise than in the
purchase of land.-- When the money is invested otherwise than in the purchase of
land an account in the ledger form should also be opened for the person on whose
behalf the money is invested to show payment of interest and final disposal.


--- Page 191 ---
184
PART D -- SHERIFFS' PETTY ACCOUNTS
SECTION | -- System of Accounts
1. Items included.-- Sheriffs' Petty Accounts relate to sums received by Officers-in-
charge of process serving agencies and intended for immediate disbursement. The
majority of such items consist of diet money for witnesses, and also include such
items as expert fees or commission fees. A detailed list of items which may properly
be included in these accounts is given in Schedule A to these rules. No item should
be deposited in this account if it should under other rules be credited direct to
Revenue Heads.
2. Accounts to be sent to Treasury daily and at the close of the month.-- The
sums so received being petty, and the money being intended for immediate
disbursement, these items form an exception to the general rule which forbids the
appropriation of receipts to expenditure. The [Nazir] or Cashier is allowed to receive
the money in cash, without remitting it to the Treasury and to make payments out of
the money in his hand. A limit is, however, imposed, and the Officer-in-charge must
remit the surplus to the Treasury whenever the balance in his hand exceeds a certain
amount. He should also remit to the Treasury the total balance in his hands on the
last working day of the month ‘(See rule 35)]. In respect of these balances the
Treasury acts merely as a banker, and the full responsibility for maintaining detailed
accounts rests with the Officer-in-charge of the agency.
3. Registers.-- (a) A detailed list of the registers and forms to be maintained in the
agencies is given in schedule B to these rules; and specimens of the registers and
forms are also reproduced there. There are two principal registers of receipts and of
disbursement known as "Register of Receipts" and "Register of Disbursements".
There is also a "Cash Book".
(b) How entries in the Register of Receipts are to be made. Progressive totals
and balances.-- The "Register of Receipts" is in itself complete and should be
confined to money received either in cash or by money order. The entries in
the register should be made strictly in the chronological order of receipts as
they occur, i.e., the number of receipts issued should be serially noted in column 2
of the register. Whenever any entry of disbursement


--- Page 192 ---
185
is made in the "Register of Disbursements" the item is again entered in the "Register
of Receipts" against the original deposit, with a view to guard against improper
disbursements. Progressive totals of daily receipts should be made beneath the daily
total and continued till the end of the month. From the monthly progressive total the
total payment as per the "Register of Disbursements" is to be deducted to arrive at
the net balance at the end of each month, which should be carried forward from
month to month to work out the progressive net balance at the end of the year. This
balance should agree with the total of the balances appearing in the treasury and
cash columns in the "Cash Book" (vide sub-paragraph (d) below). An analysis of the
outstanding balances at the end of each month should also be prepared in the
remarks column of this register. The balance for each month going back to the three
complete financial years should be worked out separately from the "Register of
Receipts" and the total of the items thus worked out proved with the balance in the
"Cash Book."
(c) Progressive totals of payments.-- Similarly, the "Register of Disbursements" is
complete and should be confined to a daily record of payments to entitled payees.
The daily entries should be totalled up and the progressive totals of daily payments
should also be made beneath the daily total till the end of the month.
(d) Cash Book.-- (i) The daily entries of receipts in the "Registrar of Receipts" and of
payments in the "Register of Disbursements" will be carried to the "Cash Book" in the
cash column the closing balance of the previous month being noted as opening
balance of the next month on the first day of that month. Payments into and
withdrawals from the Treasury should be accounted for in this "Cash Book" in the
manner described below.
(ii) Entries in Cash Book of payments into and withdrawals from Treasury.--
When the amount is paid into the Treasury an entry will be made on the payment
side in the column "cash" and a per contra entry will be made on the receipt side in
the column "treasury". Similarly, when money is drawn from the treasury an entry will
be made on the payment side in the column "treasury" and a per contra entry will be
made on the receipt side in the column "cash". Progressive balance on each day
should be struck under the signatures of the "Officer-in-charge".


--- Page 193 ---
186
(iii) Comparison of Cash Book with Treasury Pass Book.- At the close of the
month, there will be no cash balance in the hand of the Nazir. The balance with the
treasury as per (Treasury column) cash book should be worked out and agreed with
the balance as shown in the Treasury Pass Book.
4. Duties of the Officers-in-charge.-- The principal financial duties of the Officer-in-
charge of an agency may be briefly summarised:-
(i) to see that all sums received are brought to account in the "Register of Receipts";
(ii) to see that no payments are made except against deposits shown in the "Register
of Receipts" ;
(iii) to verify the balance by frequent physical verification of the cash balance in the
agency and by comparison of the treasury balance shown in the "Cash Book" of the
agency with that shown in the "Treasury Pass Book"; and
(iv) to see that remittances into and withdrawals from the Treasury when required are
promptly and correctly made.
If these duties are properly carried out, there should be no risk of defalcation and any
clerical error in the accounts should be immediately detected.
5. Personal Ledger Account in the Treasury. In respect of the balance remitted
thereto the Treasury maintains a Personal Ledger Account in the name of the agency
concerned the working of which is described in detail in section IX of these rules.
6. Proper forms and registers to be maintained.-- No books of account other than
those prescribed may be maintained, and no change may be made in the existing
forms of the registers, without the sanction of the High Court in consultation with the
Accountant-General. If for any reason additional registers are found necessary,
however, the Officer-in-charge of an agency should not hesitate to apply for
permission to introduce them.
It has been frequently noticed in the course of inspection that the registers in use are
not in the proper form but are either out of date, or are in a form intended for use only
in Treasuries. Every effort should be made to obtain the proper forms.


--- Page 194 ---
187

7. Money orders Intermediate Register.-- Whenever money is received by money
order, the Nazir must first enter particulars to identify the transaction in the "Court's
Intermediate Register". The Officer-in-charge of the agency or in his absence another
Judicial Officer empowered in this behalf by the District Judge will then both initial
the "Intermediate Register" in respect of the transaction and sign the money order
receipt before handing over the receipt to the postman and the money with the money
order coupon to the Nazir for further disposal. Such an officer must see that all items
in the "Intermediate Register" are cleared by transfer entries to the appropriate
"Registers of Receipts" on the day of receipt if possible or the next morning and initial
both the "Intermediate Register" and the "Register of Receipts" in verification of this
having been done by the Nazir.

SECTION II -- Agencies
‘8. Classes of Agencies. There are three classes of agencies which are required
to maintain Sheriffs’ Petty Accounts. The office maintaining these accounts is usually
known as the Nizarat. The three classes are as follows:-
(i) The principal process serving agency at the Headquarters of the district. This
deals with processes received from Civil and Criminal Courts. This agency is under
the control of the Senior Civil Judge or the Administrative Civil Judge in the district in
which the latter officer has been appointed. It will be referred to as Senior Civil
Judge's agency.
(ii) The Small Cause Court's agency which is under the control of the Judge of the
Small Cause Court.
(iii) Agencies at outlying stations which are under the charge of a Civil Judge.
9. Civil Nazir.-- The agencies of Senior Civil Judge and Small Cause Court's Judge
are in the charge of respective Civil Nazirs who receive cash and make payments. In
outlying stations these duties are performed by a Naib Nazir. For the sake of
simplicity these officers concerned will be referred to in these Rules as the Nazir.
10. Control over agencies. Delegation of duties.-- The principal Judicial Officer
incharge of the agency, mentioned in paragraph 8, is


--- Page 195 ---
188
responsible for the prompt and efficient service of all processes received in the
agency. The Senior Civil Judge/Administrative Civil Judge or the Judge Small Cause
Court, Lahore, may under special permission from the High Court delegate certain of
his administrative duties either to a Civil Judge or to the Registrar. The order of
delegation should state exactly what duties have been delegated. In such cases,
however, they will still remain responsible for the general supervision. The officer
incharge of the out-lying agency shall in no case delegate his duties.]
11. Security.~ [(a) The Chief Justice has been pleased to direct that the following
officials shall, on appointment, furnish security to the satisfaction of the District &
Sessions Judge, Senior Civil Judge or the Judge Small Cause Court, Lahore to
which they are attached in the sum of rupees specified below against each official:-
Civil Nazir (Senior Civil Judge's agency). Rs. 30,000/-
Nazir, Cashier (Small Cause Court's agency). Rs. 30,000/-
Naib-Nazir (District Judges, Rs. 10,000/- Senior Civil Judges' and Small Cause
Court's agencies and other agencies including Civil Judges' Courts at stations where
there is a treasury or sub-treasury).
Naib Nazir (agencies at stations Rs. 10,000/- where there is no treasury or sub-
treasury including Courts of Civil Judges so located).
Execution Bailiff .. .. Rs. 5,000/-
Note:- Process-servers are not required to furnish security; they, however, are not
permitted to have more than Rs. 200/- in hand at any time as provided in rule 20
under Section IV of these rules].
(b) Duties of Civil Nazir.-- The Civil Nazir is also the head of the process-serving
establishment of the district, other than that working directly under the District Judge
or the Judge of a Small Cause Court. His duties are:
(i) to submit reports relating to the members of the establishment or their duties to the
Senior Civil Judge or Administrative Civil Judge;
(ii) to arrange for the distribution of processes among process-servers and the
transmission of processes to agencies located at tehsils;


--- Page 196 ---
189
(iii) to see that the prescribed accounts are properly maintained by the staff working
under his immediate control; and
(iv) to prepare correspondence regarding the payment of diet-money of witnesses
and other similar matters.
12. Inspection of accounts by inspecting officers.-- District and Sessions Judges
and District Magistrates when inspecting subordinate courts should invariably inspect
the process-serving officer's accounts and note the fact that this has been done in
their inspection reports.
SECTION Ill -- Receipts of processes and Deposits by the Agencies
13. Applications for deposit: How to be dealt with.-- When an application
involving a deposit in the Sheriffs’ Petty Accounts is presented in Court, as for
example an application for summoning of witnesses to whom diet money is to be
paid, the Court Reader shall note thereon the number of the case, in order to enable
the process-serving [Naib Nazir] to make the necessary entry in the "Register of
Receipts" (See Form No.5)]. After the usual orders have been passed and recorded
by the Court, the applicant shall tender the amount of his deposit together with the
application to the Nazir who will fill in columns 1 to 7 of the "Register of Receipts,"
prepare a "Receipt" in foil and counterfoil on the prescribed form, and issue the foil to
the depositor as a receipt for the money deposited after it is signed by the Officer-in-
charge.
NOTE:- If the application is for the summoning as a witness of a Government
servant, it must state (1) his full official designation, (2) the amount deposited for
travelling expenses and (3) the amount deposited for diet-money or subsistence
allowance; and these details must be copied into the "Register of Receipts".
14. Applications for deposit: How to be dealt with.-- After the serial number of the
"Register of Receipts" has been noted on the application by the Naib Nazir and the
usual daily check exercised by the Officer-in-charge, the application should be
returned to the Court concerned for record. The counterfoil receipts will be retained
by the Naib Nazir and produced for audit.
15. Procedure when a Court is far from the Court of Senior Civil Judge.-- When
the Court of a Civil Judge is situated at such a distance from the Senior Civil Judge's
Court as to render the frequent transmission of applications to the
Nazir inconvenient, the Senior Civil Judge or administrative Civil Judge may
direct that both applications and money should be received by


--- Page 197 ---
190
an official of the Civil Judge's Court and a receipt in foil and counterfoil on the
prescribed form prepared by such official and granted to the depositor after it is
signed by the presiding officer of the Court. At the end of the day, all such
applications together with the money and the receipt counterfoils should be sent to
the Naib Nazir who will enter the necessary particulars of each application in his
"Register of Receipts" and return the applications and the receipt counterfoils to the
Court concerned with the number in the "Register of Receipts" of each item noted
both on the application and in column 2 of the counterfoil concerned.
Note:- Column 2 of the receipt foil will be blank in these cases.
16. Processes for service within the district to be sent to Nazir.-- All processes
issued by Courts for service within the district should be sent to the Nazir and should
contain a reference to the amount deposited with the Naib Nazir.
17. Processes for service in another district.-- Processes issued by a Court for
service in another district will be made over to the Nazir by the issuing Court for entry
in the "Register of Processes received and disposed of by the Nazir" [(See Form No.
6)] and transmission to the Senior Civil Judge or Administrative Civil Judge of the
district in which the person to be served resides. The amount deposited with the
‘[Nazir] on account of subsistence and other expenses as noted on the original and
duplicate copy of the process will be transmitted by the ‘[Naib Nazir] by postal money
order to the Senior Civil Judge or Administrative Civil Judge of the district in which
service is to be effected. The cost of the postal money order being borne by the party
at whose instance the process is issued. The Senior Civil Judge of such other district,
shall, in the event of the process not being served, return the amount by postal
money order less cost of commission on such order.
18. Steps to get back money if process not served.-- Courts issuing processes to
other districts should take measures to call for the prompt return of the money
remitted on account of processes which have not been served, and such sums after
being accounted for in the accounts of the Nazir in the usual way should be returned
to the person taking out the process, and excluded from the account of the costs of
the suit.


--- Page 198 ---
191
Note 1.- Periodical checking of the register to ensure that all sums re unserved
processes have been duly received and accounted for.-- To ensure that all sums
remitted to other districts on account of processes which have not been served, are
duly returned and correctly accounted for, the "Register of processes received and
disposed of by the Nazir" should, in the case of the agencies of the District Judge,
the Senior Civil Judge, and the Judge, Small Cause Court, be checked monthly by
clerks of courts and quarterly by the Officer-in-charge; and monthly by the Presiding
Officers of court in the case of agencies at outlying stations. Where there are more
courts than one situated in the same building or in close proximity at outlying stations
the Register should be checked by the Senior of the Presiding Officers. The result of
these checks should be recorded in the following form:-
"Certified that | have personally checked the entries in the "Register of processes
Month of------
received and disposed of by the Nazir" for the ------------------ and am satisfied that
quarter ending------
all sums in respect of unserved processes have been duly received and correctly
accounted for except as follows:-"
Note 2.- Processes received for service from other districts to be entered in register
"Tamil Zillah Ghair."--Processes received for service from other districts are entered
in the "Register of miscellaneous proceedings, etc., received from other districts and
courts," commonly known as the "Tamil Zillah Ghair", and should not be entered in
the "Register of processes received and disposed of by the Nazir."
19. Service of processes within the jurisdiction of Nazirs.-- Processes issued by
a Court sitting at the headquarters of the district or a tahsil, for service on a person
residing within the tahsil, where such Court is situated will be made over to the Nazir
in charge of the process-serving agency. The Nazir will thereupon arrange as follows
for payment at the time of service of sums due to persons to whom the processes are
addressed.
SECTION IV -- Transmission of processes and money to process-servers
20. Procedure when processes and money are delivered to process-servers.--
Such sums as are mentioned in rule 19 will be given to the process-servers together
with the processes, but before this is done the following procedure must be carried
out:
(a) Each process should be entered in the "Register of processes received and
disposed of by the Nazir".
(b) Payment to process-server should be entered in the appropriate column of the
"Register of Receipts" against each sum.


--- Page 199 ---
192
(c) Payment entries should be made in the "Register of Disbursements" and the
process-server's acknowledgment of receipt in column 11.
(d) Details of each sum should be entered in the "Process-server's Note-Book".
No process-server should have more than Rs. [200] in hand at any one time.
21. Payment of diet-money to witnesses by process-servers.-- When a Process-
server pays the diet-money to a witness he shall take the receipt of the actual payee
in column 8 of his note-book as well as on the back of the original copy of the
process on which service is endorsed. The payee's acknowledgment should be
verified by one or more respectable witnesses, the date and signature of the serving
officer being added. This rule may, however, be relaxed in the case of literate
persons who can write and sign the acknowledgments but to minimise the risk of
misappropriation the courts concerned should ascertain before proceeding with the
cases that the witnesses appearing before them are the persons whom the diet-
money has been actually paid. In the case of illiterate persons the thumb-marks
should invariably be attested as provided in this rule.
22. Procedure when processes are returned served by the process-server.—-
The processes whether served or not will be returned to the Nazir. If the service is
effected and the money connected therewith paid to the payee, the Nazir shall verify
the service with the acknowledgment of the payee given in column 8 of the process-
server's note-book as well as on the back of the original copy of the process, and
submit the latter to the court concerned with the usual certificate of service, at the
same time filling up columns 12 and 13 of the "Register of processes received and
disposed of by the Nazir".
23. Procedure when processes are returned unserved.- In the case of non-
service, the undisbursed amount returned by the process-server shall again be
entered against a new number in the "Register of Receipts". The new number in the
"Register of Receipts" should be quoted against the original entry in the "Register
of Disbursements” and noted in column 10 of the process-server's note-book,
column 11 of which should also be signed by the agent in acknowledgment of
the money having been received back from the process-


--- Page 200 ---
193
server. The process will then be returned to the Court concerned with a certificate of
non-service after filling up columns 12 and 13 of the "Register of Processes received
and disposed of by the Nazir."
Note 1.- Checking of process-servers' note-book.-- With a view to seeing that rules
20 to 23 are complied with, the process-servers' note-books should, in the case of
the agencies of the District Judge, the Senior Civil Judge, and the Small Cause
Court, be checked monthly by the Superintendent and quarterly by the Officer-in-
charge; and monthly by the Presiding Officers of Courts in the case of agencies at
outlying stations. Where there are more Courts than one situated in the same
building or in close proximity at outlying stations the note-books should be checked
by the Senior of the Presiding Officers. The result of these checks should be
recorded in the following form:-
"Certified that | have personally checked the accounts for the month of/quarter
ending and am satisfied that they are correct and in order except as follows:-"
Note 2. Nazir to see that money is duly accounted for in the case of unserved
processes.-- When unserved processes are returned to the Nazir it shall be the duty
of the latter to see that the undisbursed diet-money remitted with the processes is
also returned to him and entered in the "Register of Receipts."
SECTION V -- Transmission of processes, and money between agencies
24. Processes sent by one agent to another in the same district.-- Processes
issued by a Court situated within the limits of one tehsil (whether it be the
headquarters tehsil or an outlying one) for service on a person residing within the
limits of another tehsil in the district will be made over to the Naib Nazir at the place
where the Court issuing the process sits and such Naib Nazir will transmit the
process (duly endorsed with the amount, if any, which is to accompany the process)
by post or (where absolutely necessary) by messenger, to the Naib Nazir of the tehsil
within which service is to be effected after making the necessary entries in columns 1
to 11 of the "Register of processes received and disposed of by the Nazir."
25. Processes sent by one agency to another in the same district.-- Processes
received by one agency from another in the same district will invariably be returned
direct to the Naib Nazir from whom they were received, and he will return them to the
Court concerned.
26. Amount to be sent by money order.-- The amount to accompany a process
transmitted under rule 24 will, after making the usual


--- Page 201 ---
194
entries in the "Register of Receipts" and the "Register of Disbursements" be sent by
postal money order to the Naib Nazir concerned along with the process, the money
order commission being recovered from the party at whose instance the process is
issued and the money order being addressed to the Officer-in-charge (as defined in
rule 8 under section II) of the agency in which the agent works. The said Officer-in-
charge shall take delivery of the money order over his own signature in the manner
laid down in rule 7 under section 1 and he shall also see that the amount is
transferred from the "Intermediate Register" to the "Register of Receipts" on the day
of receipt if possible or the next morning. The Naib Nazir after carrying out the
procedure detailed in rule 20 (b), (c) and (d) under Section IV shall cause the process
to be served and the amount disbursed to the payee in the same manner as if the
process had been issued by one of the Courts of his own agency.
Note 1.- Processes received from other tehsils should be entered in register "Tamil
Zillah Ghair".~- Processes received from other tehsils should be entered in the
"Register of processes received and disposed of by the Nazir" kept by him; they are
entered in the "Register of miscellaneous proceedings, etc., received from other
districts and courts," commonly known as the "Tamil Zillah Ghair".
Note 2.- Duty of Officer-in-charge to see that money received is brought on to
Receipt Register.-- The Officer-in-charge (as defined in rule 8 under Section II) of the
receiving agency must satisfy himself that all amounts accompanying a process
transmitted under this rule have been brought on to the "Register of Receipts".
27. Procedure in case of non-service.-- In the case of non-service the amount (less
money order commission) will be returned by postal money order to the Officer-in-
charge of the agency from whom it was received. The said officer shall take delivery
of the money order over his own signature in the manner laid down in rule 7 under
Section | and he shall also see that the amount is transferred from the "Intermediate
Register" to the "Register of Receipts" on the day of receipt if possible or the next
morning; such amount will be entered by the agent against a new number in the
"Register of Receipts" which number should also be quoted against the original entry
in the "Register of Disbursements"
28. Certificate of service or non-service.-- The Naib Nazir to whom a process is
sent for service will invariably return the same, with a certificate of service or non-
service, as the case may be, duly endorsed thereon and signed by the Officer-in-
Charge, to the Nab Nazir from whom he received the process,


--- Page 202 ---
195

and the latter will thereupon fill in columns 12 and 13 of the "Register of process
received and disposed of by the Nazir" and then forward the process to the Court
which issued it.
Note:- The certificate of service or non-service should be signed by the Officer-in-
charge after satisfying himself of the correctness of the certificate.

SECTION VI -- Refund of deposits
29. Refund of deposits: Payment order. Undisbursed diet-money to be sent by
money orders.-- Any undisbursed balance of a deposit will be paid to the depositor
when a refund of the same is claimed by him. In such cases and in all other cases in
which undisbursed money has been ordered by the court to be paid to the proper
person, the court shall issue a "payment order" in the prescribed form to the Nazir,
who, after taking the payee's acknowledgment in the space provided for the purpose
and making the necessary entries in the "Register of Receipts" and the "Register of
Disbursements", will pay the amount due. The number to be quoted on the top of the
"payment order" will be the serial number of the transaction in the "Register of
Disbursements”
Provided that when the amount of a payment exceeds Rs. 100, it should be made in
the presence of the Presiding Officer, who should satisfy himself as to the identity of
the person claiming the amount.
Note 1:- In accordance with Punjab Government letters No.3679-S. (Home-Judl.),
dated the 3rd August, 1931 and No.4953-J-39/2760, dated the 24th August, 1939,
and Chief Commissioner, letter No.F.4(8)/39-General, dated the 5th December,
1939, undisbursed witnesses" diet-money deposits in Civil, Criminal and Revenue
cases not exceeding Rs.25 in amount, should be returned without notice to the
depositor by money order, the cost of the money order commission being deducted
from the sum to be refunded. The courts should inform the Nazir of the cases in
which judgment has been pronounced.
Note 2:- Before the record of a decided case is consigned to the Record Room, the
reader of the court shall attach to it a certificate that undisbursed deposits of diet
money payable to witness have in all cases, where necessary, been refunded to the
depositors. The Record Keeper should not receive the record unless this certificate is
attached to it.
Note 3:- The provisions of this rule and notes (1) and (2) were also applicable to
repayment of deposits of advertisement charges of newspapers in case of
substituted service.
30. Deposits claimed on behalf of a deceased depositor may be paid by the court
without the production of the usual legal authority after such enquiry into the right and
title of the claimant as may be deemed sufficient. In


--- Page 203 ---
196

cases of doubt as to the identity of the claimant and his title to the money, the court
should insist on a succession certificate or other authority from a court acting under
the Succession Act.
31. Payment order: Renewal and lapsing.-- The Court's payment order referred to
in the preceding rule will remain in force for a period of one month. No payment can
be made on a lapsed order unless it is renewed in the following manner. On the
production of a lapsed payment order the authority which originally granted it may, if
satisfied that the person producing it is entitled to receive payment, revalidate the
order by the following endorsement:-
Renewed
Signed —
Dated
The fact and date of renewal should be noted on the original departmental record of
the Court. These payment orders will be kept in a guard file for audit purposes.

SECTION VII -- Daily supervision of accounts
32. Daily checking of the entries in the Receipt Register.-- At the end of the day
the Officer-in-charge of the agency shall compare the entries made in the "Register
of Receipts" with the applications and the counterfoils of receipts issued and, after
satisfying himself of their correctness, should set his initials against each entry in
column 8 of the "Register of Receipts"
33. Daily attestation of entries by Officer-in-charge: Certificate as to
correctness of accounts for the period when officer was absent.-- All entries of
receipts in "Register of Receipts" and of payments in "Register of Disbursements"
and in the payment column of the register receipts should be duly attested by the
officer in charge of the agency on the day of transaction before the office is closed for
business. If, however, he is absent he should within a week of his return check the
accounts and forward a certificate to the District Judge that he has carefully
scrutinised the records of all the monetary transactions which took place in his
absence and has satisfied himself that they have all been brought to account and
that no irregularities have been committed.


--- Page 204 ---
197
34. Money order coupons and payees' postal receipts to be kept in guard file
and reference to their number given in proper registers.-- Payee's receipts
received through the post office for amounts sent by money orders under Section II,
Rule 17, or under Section V, Rules 26 and 27, or under the special orders of the
Court, should be pasted in a guard file and a reference to their number in the guard
file inserted in column 11 of the "Register of Disbursements". Similarly, coupons of
money orders received should be pasted in a separate guard file and a reference to
their number in the guard file inserted in column 6 of the "Register of Receipts".
SECTION VIII -- Dealing with the Treasury

35. Remittances to Treasury. Documents to accompany.-- Whenever during the
month the sum in the hand of the Naib Nazir at the headquarters of a district is
‘[Rs.500] or more and that of a Tahsil Naib Nazir is ‘[Rs. 260] or more, the surplus
over ‘[Rs. 400] and ‘[Rs. 200], respectively, shall at once be remitted to the Treasury
or Sub-Treasury. Each such remittance shall be accompanied by a memorandum in
the form given below and the Treasury pass book and a challan “(Form No.9 stereo
A and T.T.M.No. 192)] which will be returned to the agent duly receipted by the
Treasury Officer or the Sub-Treasury Officer as the case may be :-
(1) Balance in hand (if any).
(2) Withdrawals from Treasury since last remittance.
(3) Deposits received since last remittance.

Total Et
Payments made since last remittance

Balance eee
Amount now remitted to the treasury

Balance in hand Et
At the end of the month the entire amount in the hand of the Naib Nazir will also be
remitted into the treasury or sub-treasury in accordance with the procedure indicated
above.


--- Page 205 ---
198

36. Withdrawals from Treasury.-- On the other hand, in the rare cases when the
balance in the hand of the Nazir falls below the amount required for immediate
disbursement, he will recoup himself by means of a cheque on the Treasury to be
signed by the principal Officer-in-charge after he has satisfied himself by personal
inspection of the accounts that the withdrawal is necessary.
Note:- The cheque should be sent to the treasury alongwith the treasury pass book
which will be returned to the agency after noting the withdrawals, duly attested by the
Treasury Officer. Such withdrawals are in the nature of recoupment of an advance
and should not be regarded as the repayment of a particular item by means of
payment on the Treasury. The Nazir will remain responsible for individual
disbursements.
37. Transactions with Treasury to be entered only in Cash Book.-- Neither the
balance paid into the Treasury, nor the amount withdrawn therefrom under the
preceding rule, should be shown in the "Register of Receipts" and the "Register of
Disbursements". These remittances and withdrawals will be shown only in the "Cash
Book" as their effect is to deplete or increase the amount in the hand of the Nazir.
These transactions will be shown in the manner prescribed in rule 3 (d) (ii).
38. Duty of Officer-in-charge.-- The principal duties of the Officer-in-charge in this
connection are to see that money is promptly remitted to the Treasury whenever the
amount in the Nazir's hand exceeds the permissible limit and that no unnecessary
withdrawals are made, and also to watch that the balance in the hand of the Nazir, on
the last working day of the month, is remitted to the Treasury so that it may be
included in the accounts of the Treasury on that day. The monthly balancing of the
account should show at a glance whether the Nazir had remitted to the Treasury the
amount which he is supposed to have sent and it is also necessary for the Officer-in-
charge to satisfy himself that the remittances have been promptly made by reference
to the treasury receipts which should be filed in a separate guard file.

SECTION IX -- Treasury Accounts
39. Personal Ledger and Pass Book. The Treasury will maintain a Personal
Ledger Account in form [TA-20 of Account Code, Volume II in the name of each
agency dealing with it and will supply the agency with a "Pass


--- Page 206 ---
199
Book". The Pass Book should be sent monthly to the Treasury Officer, for verification
of the balance shown in it.
40. Entries of gross receipts and gross payments in Ledger and Cash Book--(a)
On each occasion that a remittance is made to the Treasury, the gross receipts and
gross payments noted in the memorandum prescribed in rule 35 shall be entered in
the receipt and payment columns, respectively, of the Personal Ledger Account and
the amount actually credited into the Treasury added to the previous balance to
arrive at the progressive balance to be shown in column 5 thereof. The amount
remaining in the hand of the [Nazir], at the time of each intermediate remittance
should be noted in the remarks column.
In addition to being entered in the Ledger Account the gross receipts and the gross
payments shall be carried to the receipt and payment side of the Cash Book against
the head "Sheriffs' Petty Accounts".
(b) Entries to be made when amount is withdrawn.— In the case of payments
made from the Treasury on cheques the progressive balance as shown in column 5
shall be reduced and the amount noted in the remarks column (as amount in the
hand of Nazir) in the manner provided in clause (a) above.
(c) Reconciling difference between the balances as shown in the Treasury's
and Accountant's balance sheets.-- As, however, in the case of the intermediate
remittances described in rule [35] above the whole of the surplus of receipts over
payments is not credited into the treasury, but part remains with the Nazir, as also in
cases in which amounts are drawn by cheques from the treasury, it is clear that to
enter gross receipts and gross payments in the cash book will result in a difference
between the balances as shown in the treasury's and accountant's balance sheets.
To reconcile the discrepancy, the amount remaining in the Nazir's hand should be
shown separately:
(i) in the remarks column of the Personal Ledger Account; and
(ii) in the accountant's daily balance sheet, the entry in the last being on the same
principle as the entry of a sub-treasury balance.
The treasury shall continue to show these balances in the balance sheet until the
entry is cancelled by a corresponding credit at the treasury at the end of the month.


--- Page 207 ---
200
41. Deduction of lapsed deposits.-- In addition to the gross receipts and gross
payments as indicated in rule [40] the other entry in the treasury account will be the
annual deduction of lapsed deposits as reported by the Naib Nazir, the adjustment of
which shall be made in the office of the Accountant-General by credit to the Head
‘[1300000-Miscellaneous Receipts; 1390000- Others; 1391000- Other Receipts;
1391001- Unclaimed Deposits]. The Treasury Officer will simply reduce the balance
of the personal ledger account.
42. Comparison of balances in the books of the agent and the Treasury Pass
Book.-- On the last working day of the month the agency will proceed to compare the
balance shown in its own books with the balance shown in the "Treasury Pass
Books".
Note:- The last working day of the month as referred to in this and the other rules in
this Chapter means the last working day on which the accounts of the treasury or
sub-treasury, as the case may be, are closed.
43. Working out balance: List of unrefunded lapsed items.-- There will be three
balances in the books of the Court. One balance will be struck at the end of the
month in the "Register of Receipts" and will show the total amount outstanding from
all previous deposits, less the amount which has lapsed to Government. This balance
will be made up of two other balances; one will be the balance in cash with the Nazir
as shown in the "Cash Book" and the other will be the balance of remittances to the
Treasury as shown in the "Pass Book". The comparison of the balance in the "Cash
Book" shall be made at the end of each month with the balance shown in the
"Register of Receipts" as under:-

Rs. P.

Opening balance
Receipts for the month as per "Register of Receipts"
Total Et
Payments for the month as shown in the "Register of Disbursements"
(plus lapsed items which will appear in June only)
Closing balance
Details Ee
Balance as per "Treasury Pass Book"


--- Page 208 ---
201
Balance in the hand of the Nazir as per "Cash Book" (which should be remitted to the
treasury after verification on the last day of the month)
Total Et
At the end of each month the Officer-in-charge of each agency should also prepare a
list of unrefunded deposits not lapsed to Government working up to the balance
(including the Treasury balance). The balance for each month going back to three
complete financial years should be worked out separately from the "Register of
Receipts" and proved with the balance at the end of the month as depicted by the
"Cash Book".
44. Physical verification of balance in the hands of the Nazir.-- The balance in
the hand of the Nazir should be physically verified by the Officer-in-charge of the
agency who should record a note as follows before it is remitted to the treasury:-
"lI have myself to-day counted the cash in the hand of the Nazir under the Head
"Sheriffs' Petty Accounts" and find that it amounts to Rs.-------- as shown in the Cash
Book."
This verification should not only be made monthly, but surprise inspections should
also be made at frequent intervals in order to ensure that the Nazir is not using the
balance for other purposes during the middle of the month. Inspecting Officer should
also check the cash balance by physical verification.
45. Monthly comparison of Nazir's balance with Treasury Pass Book.
Certificate. Report to superior officers to be made in case of discrepancy not
being reconciled.-- The balance should be checked by the Officer-in-charge with the
"Treasury Pass Book" at the beginning of each month and he should record a
certificate to the following effect in the "Cash Book":-
"I have to-day compared the Treasury balance as shown in the books of the agency
with the balance shown in the "Treasury Pass Book" and | find that they agree."
If any discrepancy is found in the account, the Officer-in-charge of the agency should
immediately take steps to have the accounts reconciled, and to see that no error has
crept in. If the accounts cannot be reconciled by the middle


--- Page 209 ---
202

of the month following that to which the balance relates, the discrepancy must be at
once reported to the District Judge who will personally take steps to have the
discrepancy reconciled. If the District Judge cannot do this by the end of the month, a
report must be sent to the High Court and to the Accountant-General.
46. Difficulties in the working of accounts to be reported to higher authorities.—-
Any difficulties which may be found in the working of the accounts as the result of the
monthly verification should be reported to higher authorities with proposals for their
removal.

SECTION XI -- Lapsed items
‘[47. Deposits to lapse after three years.-- Notwithstanding the provisions of rule
12.7 of The Punjab Financial Rules Volume | and Article 127 of Account Code
Volume II, all claims on account of Sheriffs’ Petty Accounts irrespective of their
amounts will remain current for three complete account years and lapse to
Government only on the expiry of that period.
48. Statement of lapsed items to be prepared and sent to Treasury Officer at
the end of June.- (a) The Officer-in-charge of an agency shall prepare a list of
lapsed items under the rules of Government in Form TA 49 referred to in Article 127
of Account Code Volume II, on 30th June each year and strike them off from the
Register of Receipts on the last day of the financial year i.e. 30th June, by entering
them in column 20 provided for the purpose, the date of lapse being noted below the
amount. The total amount of lapsed items as per statement so prepared should
agree with the total of outstanding balances prior to three complete account years as
shown in the analysis of the outstanding balances in the remarks column of the
"Register of Receipts" (vide rule 3 under section 1) and as worked out in the
memorandum prescribed in paragraph 43 under Section X. This statement should be
submitted to the Treasury Officer on the last working day of June for adjustment
under paragraph 41 under Section IX.]
(b) Certificate by Officer-in-charge on the statement.-- The Officer-in-charge of an
agency shall record on the statement a certificate to the


--- Page 210 ---
203

effect that all amounts due to lapse to Government have been included in the
statement.
(c) One copy of the statement to be kept for audit.~- One copy of the statement of
lapsed items should be kept with the agency for audit on the spot by the Director-
General Audit, Punjab.
(d) Reducing of balance by Treasury Officer.-- The Treasury Officer shall reduce
the balance of the Personal Ledger Account by the total amount of lapsed items and
shall forward to the Accountant-General the statement in form 29, Civil Account
Code, with the monthly accounts for June.
‘[49. Report re lapsed items.-- The deposits which have lapsed and have been so
credited to Government cannot be re-paid if subsequently claimed, without the
sanction of the Accountant General, Punjab, as required by rule 4.130 of the
Treasury and Subsidiary Treasury Rules.
The application for sanction will be made in Form STR 42. There should be a specific
application, for deposits repayable to each person and it will be used as the voucher
on which the payment is to be made and submitted to the Accountant General with
the list of payments in which it is charged.]

SECTION XIII -- Miscellaneous
50. Diet-money of Government servants appearing as witnesses.-- Diet-money
(i.e., subsistence allowance levied in accordance with Chapter 5-C of Volume | and
Chapter 9A of Volume lI of the Rules and Orders) deposited in these accounts under
rule 9 of these rules in respect of Government servants appearing as witnesses in
Civil and Criminal cases will not be paid to them, but will be credited in the Treasury
under the Head ‘[1200000-Receipts from Civil Administration and other functions;
1230000- Law and Order Receipts; 1231000-Justice; 1231800-Others.] Similarly, all
sums deposited for travelling expenses in respect of those servants, who are not
entitled to receive such expenses from the Court, will be credited in the Treasury
under the same head.
In the case of employees of the [Federal Government] or a [Pakistan Railway,] or
any other commercial department of Government, however, sums


--- Page 211 ---
204
deposited for diet-money will be credited in the Treasury to the credit of the
Government concerned, i.e., ‘[Pakistan Railway] or any other Commercial
Department of Government, as the case may be, and to enable this to be done, the
following particulars will be inserted in the challan :-
(1) Name of witness,
(2) Official designation,
(3) Office in which employed,
(4) Name of Court in which he appeared,
(5) Date of hearing,
(6) Names of parties to the suit.
Note:- Duty of Reader to inform Nazir when evidence of a Government servant has
been recorded. Certificate by reader. Duty of Record-Keeper.-- The reader of the
court concerned should give timely information to the Civil Nazir that the statement of
the government servant appearing as a witness has been duly recorded, so that
there may be no avoidable delay in crediting the subsistence allowance into the
treasury. As a further safeguard, the reader of the court, should, before the record of
a decided case is consigned to the Record Room, attach to it a certificate that the
subsistence allowance of all the government servants, who have appeared as
witnesses in the case, has been credited into the treasury under the relevant head.
The Record-Keeper should not receive any record to which this certificate is not
attached.
51. Commission fees to Government Servants. The acceptance of commission
fees by Government servants is governed by rule 5.58 of the Civil Services Rules
(Punjab), Volume I, Part I, and by Supplementary Rule 12.
52. Forms of Receipts.-- The forms of "Receipts" will be machine-numbered with a
book number and a receipt number on each foil and counterfoil and bound into books
each containing 200 forms.
53. Custody and issue and checking of Receipt Books and Cheque Books.—-
"Receipt" books and "Cheque" books will on receipt by the agency be entered in the
"Stock Book of Receipt and Cheque Books" and remain in the personal custody of
the Officer-in-charge. Issues will be made by the Officer-in-charge to the Nazir after
accounting for such issue in the stock book. The number of Cheque and Receipt
forms in each book should, when received, be checked and a certificate to this effect
recorded on the cover of each copy.


--- Page 212 ---
205
54. Each page of register and account book to be paged and sealed and
number of pages to be counted.-- Each page of every register and book of account
shall be paged and sealed, and an endorsement shall be made at the end of such
register or book showing the number of pages and signed by the Officer-in-charge.
SHERIFFS' PETTY ACCOUNTS RULES
SCHEDULE A
List of items which may properly be included in Sheriffs' Petty Accounts.
(1) Sums deposited by parties as the expenses of witnesses, fees of expert
witnesses, and commission fees, in civil, criminal and revenue cases.
(2) Deposits of advertisement charges of newspapers in cases of substituted service.
(3) Sums deposited for immediate disbursement as costs in partition cases
(revenue).
(4) Sums deposited as costs in connection with applications for Probate, Letters of
Administration, and Succession Certificates, other than the cost of stamps deposited
by applicants, under Act XXXIX of 1925.
(5) All petty items received for immediate disbursement in full except when they are
deposited in courts following the cash system for Civil Court Deposits.
SHERIFFS' PETTY ACCOUNTS
SCHEDULE B
List and specimens of registers and forms to be maintained or used in Sheriffs’ Petty
Accounts.
(1) Register of Receipts.
(2) Register of Disbursements.


--- Page 213 ---
206
(3) Cash Book.
(4) Treasury Pass Book.
(5) Receipt Form.
(6) Register of processes received and disposed of by the Nazir.
(7) Note-book of process-server.
(8) Payment Order Form.
(9) Challan Form.
(10) Cheque Form.
(11) Form No. T.A. 49
(12) Form No. S.T.R. 42
(13) Stock book of forms of Receipt Books/Cheque Books
(14) Intermediate register of money orders, etc.,
(This register is reproduced in the Civil Court Deposit Rules. As there will be one
such register in each Court for all money order transactions, such transactions as
relate to Sheriffs’ Petty Accounts will also be included in it.)


--- Page 214 ---
207
Te
0 a
DI —
a]
A: IT
: fl ===
Noam
18 he
: pi TE ES a)
E
HE i
i ks g ii
8: =z a ey
gs Es a Ih FS
HE FIT
——]
I Ca]
[<]
S| mE
1] EE —
Fe
DI —


--- Page 215 ---
208
g 1
8
if 3
5 =z
B01 e a
THEE
%z/S =
i= e
4 -
° -
ARN INHER
S = *3| 22
TARE
ii | Z
s:g g
=
£ =
Ee z
z3 3:
& =z 32
d= =
23 = =
Efe | z= B32
: 3% =%
z Ni
= 2] &
- =z
~ a
a
"= | =]
HEE 5 3
£8) Ee g
z | 2
ol @ Z
[=
BELLE
¥ 3
coe =
: | i ;
= 4 | 7
Z
TE
4.3


--- Page 216 ---
209
E i KE
i
EEE x
zs
o
1 EE)
IE
: oF
“3 9 i E®
£3 Eg z 4 ] 1]
2s 2 il Li NE
af it IRE
Be = BE _€ : &
iL
£5 Ip {
Ea 4
+ : He i E
Zz | i | eS ]
SE i j oF 15 1 if I
+ EEL i 3


--- Page 217 ---
210
En
i
-
AT DI
5 = H
HL —
=
>=
SIR ERIN
: | 1]
3 E
Sa =i o
38 8 | LS
fi: i. usssssssssssesssEEe
887 =e =
=
1 :: i
2 iE
= $f
pic]
=
>
z=
:
= Fos


--- Page 218 ---
of
i) HH
LE RHE]
23 |nwannn ness oo om an me
1 THE
ni

id Hl

HITEHERRE
i li
RH IAHR


--- Page 219 ---
212
El pines
SIR 1)
« [pl
soll
| [din] |
P| [hm

$3 2B Jak Be 2
5 EE BiH
EIT
HAAR TIER
HEE 3
ph |
8 =I 8s]
mle. 1 -
=m]
=] J 1]


--- Page 220 ---
—( C
Es
J
Elie
SERRE
E— io
EIT
hil
—
| HE
SETI NTI


--- Page 221 ---
El k
5. §
) §238]
: h [|
NE MENIHE
H
:
£3 2 8 Pa :
of EE
2 3 ¥
fm
HH
]
EB. 2 ga


--- Page 222 ---
215
8 2 | 8
z =
§IE§ iE
SHINEE
zd i i «| i g
i & H P| 2
= gE E z
f 8 p: # [gS
IE
: [i
§ § }
a =
g a
of gl
$ | § DE5F
P| = gest
= 2%
i iz
:
&
Hl
=3
7
Bl


--- Page 223 ---
216
p
:

2

-

b+

H

| :
g

[=]

Eo.

FE
i523
=E
=a
EE
z
H

;

£

z
i
i


--- Page 224 ---
217
FORM No, 11.
(Vide Rule 48)
FORM No. T.A. 49
See Chap IV Art. 127 Account Code Vol, 2
STATEMENT OF LAPSED (CIVIL CRIMINAL COURTS OR REVENUE)
DEPOSITSOF THE TREASURY FOR THE YEAR 19
DEPOSITS GENERAL'S OFFICE
rm [| me FTE el —
Yi Balance refund
Toul
+ FW I EA sa
mer
Court .
a Officer-in-Charge
dated 000000 Treasury Officer


--- Page 225 ---
218
FORM No. 12.
(Vide Rule 49)
(Form 8.T.R. 42)
(See rule STR. 4.130)
VOUCHER NO.
REFUND OF LAPSED DEPOSITS.
TO
THE ACCOUNTANT GENERAL, PUNJAB, LAHORE,
Sir, |
The following refund of Lapsed Deposits, aguregating Rs. (in
words) have been claimed by
of whose identity and title to the money | have satisfied myself T request your
sanction to the refund.
Class of EEA Dakance credited | Date of Lapsed | Amosng
Deposit | ver | no | w Government Stavement claimed
District . (Sd)
Judge, Magistrate or other
The, [] Officer
Designation of aiher Officer,


--- Page 226 ---
219
Accountant General's Office Ne dated 00
Sanctioned
_—_—
Assistant Accounts Officer,
evens Puatiga
Assistant Accountant General
Recenved payment
Claimant,
Pay Rupees { Ye ud
The [8]

Examined. Accountant, Treasury Officer
-—
NOTICE:~ The sygnature of the claimant should be obtamed on this form and the form

should be retured as a vouchor In support of the debit
For use in Accountant-Genceal's Serial No in No. Book
Office
ADMITTED. Noted mn the Number
OBJECTED TO, Book of the Orders.
Auditor Exma, Supde Superintendent


--- Page 227 ---
220
1
dl
ETI

LRN
Bl Fleearsm
H
NLT —
ak =
ri {LE —
M ; 0
at ==
El
hi etl | oT


--- Page 228 ---
221
PART E -- CIVIL COURT DEPOSIT ACCOUNTS
SECTION A -- GENERAL
[1. Amount included.- Civil Court deposits consist of sums which are either paid
into Court or paid into District Accounts Office of each District under the orders of the
Court with the intention that they should be paid out again either to the depositor or to
a third person and should not be finally credited to Government until they lapse to
Government under rule 12.7 of the Punjab Financial Rules Volume | read with Article
127 of Account Code Volume II. Civil Court Deposit Accounts relate to all deposits
other than those which may properly be included in Sheriffs' Petty Accounts; the
large majority of such items are decretal amounts; a list of other items which may be
included in these accounts is given in Schedule A to these rules.]
2. Cash and voucher systems.- The system of accounts varies according as the
Court is ordinarily permitted to receive and repay deposits in cash or is required to
carry out both transactions through the Treasury. These two systems, known as the
cash and voucher systems respectively, are described in sections B and C which
prescribe the different classes of Courts in which each system is to be followed. The
rules given in this section apply to all courts alike.
3. Bailiffs' note-books and their checking.- In order to watch the return and
execution of warrants, etc., entrusted to the Execution Bailiffs and to see on what
dates the amounts were realised by them and paid into the Treasury, each Execution
Bailiff shall maintain a note-book in the form prescribed in Schedule B to these rules.
This note-book shall be printed in Urdu.
Note:- The note-books of execution bailiffs will be checked as laid down in note 1 to
rule 23 of the Sheriffs’ Petty Accounts Rules with the modification that such checks
will be performed monthly by the Superintendents and quarterly by the Presiding
Officers in the case of accounts maintained in Courts of District Judge and Senior
Civil Judge and in a Small Cause Court; and monthly by the Presiding Officers of all
other Courts. Where there are more Courts than one situated in the same building, or
in close proximity at outlying stations, the note-books should be checked by the
Senior of the Presiding Officers.
4. Particulars of the warrant to be entered in Bailiff's note-book.- Before
a warrant is handed over to the Bailiff for execution its particulars should be
entered in columns 1 to 9 of his note book by the Nazir.


--- Page 229 ---
222
The remaining columns should be completed by the Bailiff or the Nazir, as the case
may be, after the execution of the warrant.
Note:- Rules 3 and 4 also apply to Process Servers who are entrusted with the
execution of warrants.
#[5. Stamp on receipts.- If the amount to be receipted and the payment voucher
exceeds Rs. 20 the claimant will be required to affix revenue stamp of the following
denomination:-
Amount. Stamp
(i) Rs. 21 to Rs. 100 Paisa 15
(ii) Rs. 101 to Rs. 2000 Paisa 50
(iii) Rs. 2001 to Rs. 10,000 Re. 1
(iv) Rs. 10,001/- and above Rs. 2/-.]
6. Separate ledger for Courts mentioned in Section B.- Each of the Courts
mentioned in Section B rule 11 shall have a separate personal ledger account for its
deposits distinct from that maintained for the Sheriffs’ Petty Accounts.
7. Initial deposit by applicant in Insolvency cases.- Under rule 46 of Chapter 4-B,
Rules and Orders, Volume lI, the initial deposit made by an applicant for adjudication
as insolvent is to be shown as a deposit under these rules. Insolvency Courts
exercising powers of summary administration may also act as receivers of the
Insolvents' estate.
Separate registers with regard to such sums may be maintained provided the Nazir
or Cashier remains responsible for the accounts and combines these with the rest of
the Civil Court Deposit Accounts at the end of the month.
8. Separate accounts for each Court.- There will be a separate set of accounts for
each Court, and the Presiding Officer of each Court will be personally responsible for
the supervision of the accounts of his own Court (in the absence of special
permission from the High Court to delegate his duties.) When an Additional Judge is
appointed to a Small Cause Court, a separate account will be opened, and there will
also be a separate account for the Court of Registrar.


--- Page 230 ---
223

9. "Nazir" defined.- The term "Nazir" in these rules includes a Cashier and a Naib-
Nazir.
10. Money orders.- Money orders addressed to the Courts must be signed by the
Presiding Officer and by no one else except another judicial officer appointed to
discharge the duties of the Presiding Officer during temporary absence. It is
absolutely forbidden for Superintendent or other ministerial officers to sign therm.
The Presiding Officer at the time of receiving any money orders, shall first see that
the Nazir has entered sufficient particulars thereof to identify the transactions in the
"Court's Intermediate Register" and he will then both initial the "Intermediate
Register" in respect of the transaction and sign the money order receipt before
handing over the receipt to the postman and the money with the money order coupon
to the Nazir for further disposal. The money order coupon shall be treated as the
depositor's application and the procedure with regard to such applications shall be
followed with regard to it. The Presiding Officer must see that all items in the
"Intermediate Register" are cleared by transfer entries to the appropriate "Register of
Receipts " on the day of receipt if possible or the next morning and initial both the
"Intermediate Register and the "Register of Receipts" in verification of this having
been done by the Nazir.

SECTION B- THE CASH SYSTEM
#[11. Courts following Cash System.- The provisions contained in rule 12.14 of the
Punjab Financial Rules Volume | and appendix 22 thereunder regulate the deposits
by the Courts of Small Causes, the repayment and the maintenance of various
registers and returns by such court. These are reproduced below:-
"12.14 All deposits are paid into and held at the court, when, however, the sum in
possession of the court exceeds Rs. 1,000 the excess amount is at once remitted to
the Government treasury. All repayments are made by the court itself without the
intervention of the Treasury Officer out of the balance held by it. If, however, the
balance is not sufficient to meet the claims, the repayment is made by cheques on
the Treasury Officer against the surplus collections remitted to the treasury.


--- Page 231 ---
224

All transactions of receipts and payments are brought to account by the court
concerned in the registers of receipts and repayments maintained by it.
The gross receipts and repayments, are reported by the courts concerned from time
to time, vide Appendix 22 (including repayments by cheques at the treasury) are
taken by the Treasury Officer to the personal deposit account opened separately for
each court. These personal ledgers and the corresponding accounts and returns
must be kept by the Treasury Officers in the form prescribed for personal deposits,
but quite separate from those of personal deposits proper, being designated as "Civil
Courts' Deposits".
Each court submits to the Treasury Officer monthly returns (i.e. extract registers of
deposits receipts and repayments with vouchers duly stamped where necessary and
plus and minus memorandum), quarterly certificate, clearance register and statement
of lapses, etc. These returns are transmitted in original by the Treasury Officer to the
Accountant General.
Note:- For detailed instructions for the maintenance of Deposit Accounts of these
courts see Appendix 22.

APPENDIX 22
(Referred to in Rules, 12.14 and the Note thereunder)
Detailed rules for the maintenance of Deposit Accounts of Courts of Small Causes.
1. A register shall be kept up at the Court in Form T.A. 20 of all deposits paid into the
Court.
2. All payments made from these deposits shall be entered in a separate Register
(Form T.A. 21) and also in the appropriate column of the Register of Receipts (Form
T.A. 20).
Each transaction of a receipt or payment should be initialed by the Registrar
appointed under section 12 of the Provincial Small Cause Courts Act, 1887 (IX of
1887).


--- Page 232 ---
225
3. Payments shall be made by the Court to the claimants entitled thereto from the
sums brought to credit in the Register of Receipts mentioned in Rule 2 without the
intervention of the Treasury Officer except under the special circumstances
described in Rule 5 below.
4. Whenever the sum in possession of the Court is in excess of Rs. 1,000, such
excess shall at once be remitted to the Treasury accompanied by a challan, which
should show the gross receipts, and the payments made under Rule 3, since the last
surplus was remitted, and the surplus collections then remitted with the challan,
which will be returned to the Court receipted by the Treasury Officer.
5. If at any time the claim of a creditor before the Court shall exceed the balance held
by it, the Court shall issue a cheque (Form S.T.R. 41) for such claim on the Treasury
Officer against the surplus collections remitted to the Treasury.
6. On the fixed "latest date" each month, each Court should close its Deposit
Registers for the month, and enter subsequent transactions in the same Register
with those of the next month. In June the fixed "latest date" will be the 30th. In others,
such a date will be fixed by the Deputy Commissioner as will secure the inclusion of
each month's transactions in the Headquarters Treasury Accounts for the month.
7. On the "latest date" each Court should, without fail, report to the Treasury Officer
the receipts and the payments made under Rule 3 which may have taken place since
the last surplus balance was remitted to the Treasury, and furnish him with a certified
Memo of the closing balance in the hands of the Court. If any surplus balance is to be
remitted on that date, the certified Memo of the closing balance should be attached to
the challan, the other information being given on the challan itself.
8. The gross receipts and payments on account of Civil Court Deposits, as reported
by the Courts from time to time in their challans and in the Memo. sent to
the Treasury as directed in Rule 7, together with the payments made on cheques
by the Treasury Officer under Rule 5, should be brought on the books of the
Treasury Officer and accounts kept in the form prescribed for Personal
Deposits (Form TA. 22), which should be designated


--- Page 233 ---
226
us "Civil Court's Deposits”. in order to distinguish them from Personal Deposits
proper.

9. The surplus collections remitted by the Courts are not to be
emered in the Cash Book of the Treasury Officer, as they will be virwally
brought on his books by crediting and debiting the gross receipts and payments
of the Courts. They will be treated in the same way as remittance from Sub-
Treasuries to the District Treasury,

10. The balances in the hands of the Courts will form a portion of the
Treasury Cash Balance, and will be entered specifically by the Treasury Officer
in the Cash Balance Report and in the Cash Account like balances of Sub-
Treasuries.

11. As soon as the Registers of & month are closed, the Court will
submit to the Treasury Officer

(1) an extract (in Form T.A. 43) from his Register of Receipts of

Deposit which should be written up day by day, so that there may
be no delay in sending il at the close of the month,

(2) alist of Repayments of Deposits made during the month in Form
T.A. 21 or 44, supported by receipts of the payees, duly
stamped, when in excess of Rs. 20, This list will include
payments made by the Court under Rule 3, and payments made
by the Treasury Officer on cheques under Rule 5, the number of
cheques being noted in column S$, and the word "Cheque" in
column 7 of the Register of Payments.

(3) A duly signed Memorandum of Adjustment in the following

Form: 4
Rs. Ps |
|
A- Opening balunce 0 0
Deposits received during the
month of as shown in extract
from Deposit Register of
Receipts submitted 0 0 |
Total 0 0 |


--- Page 234 ---
227
B- Deposits id during the
month a ee iy submitted 0 0
Balance in Court which I have verified
as correct 0 [%)
| Balance in Treasury 0 a
| Total i= 7
(Signed) AB.
Care shall be taken (0 see that the total of A is equal to the total
of B as it ought to be.

12. The Returns received from the Small Cause Court will be
transmitted to the Accountant-General in original. The cheques paid by the
Treasury Officer should be attached to the Returns with a covering list showing
the number and amount of cach cheque.

13. On the fast working day of each financial year, the entire balance
in the custody of the Court shall, without fail, be remitted to the Treasury at
such an hour as to admit of its being included in the Accounts for June as a
balance at the Treasury.

14. At the commencement of each year, each Court shall furnish the
Accountant-General, through the Treasury Officer, with a list of the balances
still outstanding of the Civil Courts, Deposits of the second preceding year and
those of the last preceding Clearance Register but one which ire not allowed to
lapse to Government in Form T_A. 43 with suitable changes in the headings and
A statement of Lapsed Deposits in Form T.A. 49. The deposits reported for
lapses should be excluded from the Clearance Register

NOTE- When the Tist of lapses is made up by the Court notice the amount must be sent

oe Yexmiy Offlcer 10 enable him to deduet tbe waount in the personal
ger.

12. System of accounts. The accounts to be maintained in these
Courts are in the main the same as those laid down in the rules for Sheriffs
Petty Accounts to which reference will hereinafter be made 45 the Sheriffs Petty
Accounts Rules. The principal points of difference arc--


--- Page 235 ---
228

(a) The audit authorities are required to check the disposal of all Civil Courts
deposits, and a detailed return of all receipts and payments must accordingly be
made to the Accountant-General (Rules 36 and 37).
(b) In certain cases repayment may be made by cheque instead of cash (Rules 22
and 26), and these repayments have to be treated differently from withdrawals from
the Treasury made under the Sheriffs’ Petty Accounts Rules.
13. Registers and Forms.- A detailed list of the registers and forms to be maintained
is given in Schedule B to these rules. There are three registers, viz., "Register of
Receipts," "Register of Disbursements," and "Cash Book," in the same forms as
those prescribed by the Sheriffs Petty Accounts Rules with a difference in respect of
the "Register of Disbursements" in which the payment column is sub-divided into two
columns "cash" and "treasury" for recording cash and cheque payments separately
for facility of posting in the "Cash Book." These registers must be kept separate from
those of the Sheriffs' Petty Accounts.

Receipt of Deposits
14. Application for deposit.- When a deposit is tendered by a depositor in person,
he will present an application to the Court. This application will be verified from the
judicial record of the case concerned by the Ahimad and if it is in order, he shall pass
it on to the Nazir. The Nazir shall then fill in columns 1 to 7 of the "Register of
Receipts" and prepare a "Receipt" on the foil and counterfoil on the prescribed form
and he shall also note on the application over his initials the serial number of the
entry in the "Register of Receipts". The Nazir shall then produce the depositor and
these documents before the Presiding Officer who, if he approves the deposit, shall
initial column 8 of the "Register of Receipts", hand over the foil of the "Receipt" to the
depositor, and receive the money from him. He shall then pass on the money and the
application to the Nazir for further action. If he does not approve the deposit, he shall
cancel, over his own signature, the entries which have been made by the Nazir in all
these documents including the register.
Note:- Entries of deposits in the "Register of Receipts" will be numbered in a
separate series for each financial year.


--- Page 236 ---
229
15. Deposits by Bailiffs and Court Auctioneers.- When a deposit is made by a
Bailiff or a Court Auctioneer, he shall put in a similar application. The receipt will be
granted to him, but will show the deposit as made on behalf of the judgment-debtor.
Receipts granted to bailiffs will be pasted in their note-books.
16. Deposit by cheque or Remittance Transfer Receipts.- When a deposit is
made through the post by cheque issued by Government Departments or by
remittance transfer receipts, the accompanying letter will be treated as the
application, and the "Receipt" will be sent to the depositor with an endorsement
showing the manner of remittance. The cheque or remittance transfer receipt will be
sent to the treasury the same day, the Nazir's accounts being balanced by showing
the amount as paid into the treasury in the manner provided for remittances of
surplus balances in rules 27 and 28. Particulars of the cheque or R.T.R. shall be
entered in the "Intermediate Register" as laid down in Rule 10.
17. Deposit by money order.- When the deposit is received by money order, the
money order coupon will be treated as the application. A "Receipt" will be drawn up
and will be attached to the coupon for being placed on the judicial record. All money
orders addressed to the Court will be received by the Presiding Officer as laid down
in rule 10.
18. Deposits in case of prohibitory orders against salaries of government and
Railway servants.- Deposits in Courts which maintain accounts according to the
cash system in this section, in respect of prohibitory orders issued by them against
salaries of Government servants, railway employees, etc., will be made as follows :-
(i) When a Government servant or a railway employee, etc., is paid by an office
which is situated in a station other than that at which the Court issuing the prohibitory
order is located, the salary disbursing office must remit the amount to the Court by
postal money order, the postal money order commission being deducted from the
amount specified in the attachment order.
(ii) Where a Government servant or railway employee, etc., is paid by an office which
is situated in the same station at which the Court issuing the prohibitory order is
located, the salary disbursing of office must pay the amount to the Court in cash or


--- Page 237 ---
230

remit it by postal money order in the manner laid down in (i) above.
(iii) Presiding Officers of Courts shall endorse all prohibitory orders with clear
instructions, that is (i) or (ii) above, as the case may be, to guide salary disbursing
offices how to pay into their Courts the money attached.

Payments
19. Entry of payments.- All payments made from these deposits shall be entered in
the "Register of Disbursements" and also in the appropriate column of the "Register
of Receipts"
20. Mode of cash repayment.- When an application for repayment of deposits is
made to the Court, the Nazir shall check the claim with reference to the entry in the
"Register of Receipts" and if the balance be sufficient, he shall prepare a "Voucher"
(Civil Account Code form No. 27 or Punjab stereo A and T form No.261) and have it
signed by the Presiding Officer of the Court concerned. He will then take the payee's
receipt, duly stamped according to rule 5, and pay the amount out of his current
receipts. The payment will be recorded in the "Register of Disbursements" with full
details of the original deposit in columns 1 to 3, and a note of the date and the
amount of the repayment will be made, at the same time, in the "Register of
Receipts" against the original receipt entry.
21. Responsibility of Presiding Officer about repayments. All repayments of
such deposits to the parties concerned shall invariably be made in the presence of
the Presiding Officer who will also be responsible for seeing that the amounts are
paid to the proper claimants and that the entries made in respect of these
transactions in the appropriate registers are duly supported by his initials (as required
by Rule 23) before payment is made.
22. Repayments by cheques.- If the balance of the current receipts is not sufficient
to meet a demand, repayment shall be made by means of a "cheque" on the
Treasury in favour of the actual claimant, signed by the Presiding Officer, the number
and date thereof being endorsed on the "Voucher" (see Rule 20) as follows:-
"Paid by cheque No. , dated .'


--- Page 238 ---
231
23. Repayments to be entered in proper registers.- All repayments of deposits,
whether made from current receipts or by "cheque" on the Treasury against surplus
collections remitted to it, shall be recorded in the "Register of Receipts" and the
"Register of Disbursements" as in Rule 20 under the initials of the Presiding Officer.
24. Instructions to be followed when authorising payment.- When authorising
payment, the Presiding Officer signing the "voucher" or the "cheque" shall carefully
observe the instructions contained in Articles 201, 202, 210, Civil Account Code,
Volume I, which are summarised as follows:-
(a) A person claiming refund of a deposit must produce an order of the court or
authority which ordered acceptance of the deposit; this order the Presiding Officer
will compare with the entry in the Register of receipts, and, if the balance be
sufficient, he will take the payee's receipt, make payment, and record it at once,
under his initials both in the Register of Disbursements from which a daily total is
carried to the Cash Book and in that of receipts noting in both also the date and the
amount of the repayment.
(b) In order to avoid the inconvenience and risk which accompany the payment of
money upon proceedings recorded in the Urdu languages, and to ensure caution in
the issue of such orders, the Government have directed that every order issued by a
Court or office for the payment of money from a Government Treasury shall be in
English, unless the Presiding Officer is unacquainted with that language. If the
disbursing officer does not understand English, and the officer ordering the payment
does, the order for payment shall be both in Urdu and in English.
He will further see that each application for repayment is duly cancelled over his
signature so that a second payment cannot be made.
25. Voucher for cash payment to be stamped "paid."--All vouchers paid by the
Nazir out of receipts shall be stamped "paid" by himself.
26. Repayment by transfer credit.- In the case of repayments to be made by
transfer credit to Government account, cheques will be prepared in the manner laid
down in the Rule 22. Such cheques will be drawn in favour of self and endorsed--
"Received payment by transfer credit to ---------------=------."
This is as laid down in note 2 to Article 26, Civil Account Code, Volume |, which
runs "When a public officer sends a cheque to a


--- Page 239 ---
232

Treasury not for cash payment, but for credit of its amount in the Treasury accounts,
he must, before endorsing the same, add the words “Received payment by transfer
credit to----------------'. Omission to do this facilitates fraudulent appropriation of
money."
The particular head in the Government accounts to which the credit is to be afforded
by transfer will be noted both in the "Register of Receipts" and in the "Register of
Disbursements".

Transactions with the Treasury
27. Surplus money to be sent to Treasury by post.- Whenever the amount of
deposit in possession of the Court, other than the Court of Small Causes at Lahore,
is in excess of *[Rs.1000] by Rs.10 or more; such excess shall at once be remitted to
the Treasury by postal money order, commission being charged to contingencies for
which a small advance will be made to the Court by the Senior Civil Judge out of the
payment advance sanctioned for him under *[Rule 2.8 Punjab Financial Rules,
Volume 1.] A memorandum in the form prescribed in rule 34 of the Sheriffs’ Petty
Account Rules with a challan (Stereo A and T form No. 192) in duplicate shall be
despatched by post to the treasury officer who shall sign it and return one copy of the
challan to the Court. The number and date of the challan should be noted on the
money order coupon by which money is remitted.
28. Surplus money to be sent to Treasury by post.- The same procedure shall be
adopted in the cases of the Court of Small Causes at Lahore, except that deposits in
excess of Rs. 1,000 will be remitted to the treasury, but not by money order.
29. Remittance to Treasury by cheque or Remittance Transfer Receipt.- When a
deposit is made by cheque issued by Government Departments, or by R.T.R., under
rule 16, this should be sent to the Treasury in the manner provided for the remittance
of surplus balances in Rules 27 and 28, and will be shown as such in the "Cash
Book."
29-A. Balance to be credited in Treasury at the end of the month.- The balance
in the hand of the Nazir at the end of the month should be remitted to the treasury
so that it may be included in the treasury accounts for that month with a memo. as
prescribed in the Sheriffs’ Petty Accounts Rules. The date for


--- Page 240 ---
233
closing the monthly accounts at the outlying Courts, should be so fixed as to admit of
the remittance ( made through money order or otherwise) being included in the
balance of the treasury on the last working day of the month. The procedure for
remittance will be the same as described in rules 27 and 28.
30. The Treasury Account will be a personal ledger account.- The treasury
account will be a personal ledger account as provided in the Sheriffs' Petty Account
Rules, Section IX, and will be verified as provided in Section X of those Rules with
the necessary modifications.
31. Register of uncashed cheques.- In order to make the figures shown in the
books of the Court agree with the Treasury balance it will be necessary to make a list
of uncashed cheques. For this purpose the Court will maintain a "Register of
uncashed Cheques" showing all cheques issued during the month, and those which
have actually been cashed or adjusted. The latter will be taken from the "Treasury
Pass Book."
32. Statement of uncashed cheques to be shown in cash book.- The amounts of
the uncashed cheques will be totalled. A statement will then be shown in the "Cash
Book" as follows:-
Rs.
Actual Treasury balance ... ...
Deduct for uncashed cheques ... ...
Nazir
Balance in hand of --------eeeeeeeeee LLL
Cashier

Last working day of the month
"(To be remitted on the---=-====seemmmmmemeeeeeem eee

Last day of the month on which the account is closed

(in case of outlying Courts)

Total ...
The last total should agree with the current total balance of the Court.
Daily supervision of accounts.


--- Page 241 ---
234

33. Mode of supervision.- The daily supervision of accounts will take place exactly
in accordance with the Sheriffs' Petty Accounts Rules-Section VII.
34. Matters requiring special attention of the Presiding Officer.- (i) The Presiding
Officer should pay special attention to two matters. He must see that all amounts
received by money order are promptly brought to account and he must also see that
all cheques and R. T. Rs. are sent to the Treasury as soon as received.
(ii) The Presiding Officer must satisfy himself every day of the correctness of the
balance in the "Cash Book."
He should see that-
(a) the excess amount over the prescribed limit when necessary and the entire
amount of cash in the hand of the Nazir on the last working day of the month is
positively remitted to the treasury;
(b) that a reference to the treasury receipt is quoted against the relevant entry in the
Cash Book and that the receipt is pasted in a separate guard file.
35. Applications to be returned to Ahlmad for inclusion with the judicial
records.- After attestation, the applications will be returned to the Ahlmad for
inclusion with the judicial records concerned.

Monthly Returns
36. As soon as the Registers of a month are closed and the Treasury Pass Book has
been received, the Presiding Officer of each Court will submit to the Treasury
Officer:
(i) Monthly submission to the Treasury of extracts from Register of Receipts.- An
extract from the "Register of Receipts" in Form No. *[T.A. 43] which should be written
up day to day, so that there may be no delay in sending it at the close of the month.
Note:- At the end of every quarter, the Presiding Officer of the Court shall certify that
he has personally and carefully examined the register and that the entries are made
with the utmost care and regularity.
(if) Monthly submission to the Treasury on list of repayments with payees receipts.- A
list of repayments of deposits made during the month in C.


--- Page 242 ---
235
Form No. “[T A. 44] supported by receipts of the payee duly stamped when
in excess of Rs, 20, This list will include payments made by the Court under
rule 20 and payment made by the Treasury on cheques under rules 22 and 26.
the number of the cheque and the word "cheque" being noted in column 4 of the
list.

(iii) Memorandum of adjustment.- A duly signed memorandum of
adjustment in the following form:-

Rs

A.- Opening balance Wh pres

(As per treasury column of the Cash Book) x i“

Deposits received during the month of----—---eeeee .

as shown in the exiract from the "Register
of Receipts” submitted

Uncashed cheques (if any) ?

Total ye.

B.- Deposits repaid during the month as per

List submitted i¢

Balance in Treasury on Zh

Total i ne
(Signed) A.
B.

Notezs Care shall be taken w see that the total of A is equal 10 the total of B as it

ought 10 be.

37. Treasury Officer will forward the returns with cheques paid
by him.- The rewrns received from Courts will be transmitted hy the Treasury
Officer to the Accountant-General in original, the cheques paid by the Treasury
Officer being attached 10 the returns with u covering list showing the number
and amount of each cheque.

Lapses.
Lapses


--- Page 243 ---
236

[38. When amounts lapse. Statement of lapsed items to be sent annually.
Lapsed amounts not to be paid by Nazir.- In accordance with the provisions of rule
12.7 of the Punjab Financial Rules Volume-I read with Article 127 of Account Code
Volume II all deposits not exceeding 5 rupees unclaimed for one whole Account
Year, the balances not exceeding 5 rupees all deposits particularly repaid during the
year then closing, all balances unclaimed for more than 3 complete Account Years
will, after close of June in each year to be credited to Government by means of
transfer entries in the office of the Accountant General. The statement of deposits
and balances thus lapsing shall be prepared by Nazir immediately after 30th June
each year in Form T.A. 49 it having been checked by the Presiding Officer submitted
to the Accountant General through Treasury Officer. Amounts shown in this
statement shall not thereafter be paid by the Nazir. They shall be paid by the
Treasury with the sanction of the Accountant-General according to the procedure laid
down in rule 4.130 of the Treasury and Subsidiary Treasury Rules. An application for
sanction will be made in Form STR 42.]
39. Clearance register to be sent along with lapsed statement.- Along with the
statement of lapses each Court shall also furnish the Accountant-General, through
the Treasury Officer, with a list of balances still outstanding of the second preceding
year. This list is prepared in Form No. T.A. 43 after changing its headings and is
called the "Clearance Register." The deposits reported for lapse should be excluded
from the "Clearance Register". To this "Clearance Register" should also be
transferred any items in the last preceding clearance register but one that are for
special reasons not allowed to lapse to government while the bulk of the
outstandings in it so lapse.

SECTION C -- VOUCHER SYSTEM
40. Courts which follow voucher system.- These rules apply to all Civil Courts
other than those mentioned in Section B; that is, they apply to Courts of District
Judges, and to all Courts of Civil Judges at the headquarters of a district or at
stations where there is a Treasury or a Sub-Treasury.
41. Principle of the system explained.- The principle of this system is that laid
down in Rule *[4.131 of the Treasury and Subsidiary Treasury Rules]; that is, it is
intended that these Courts should neither receive nor pay out


--- Page 244 ---
237

money, but that all deposits should be paid into the treasury on documents signed
by the Presiding Officer of the Court, and all payments should be made by means of
vouchers on the Treasury.
42. Exceptions.- Certain exceptions, however, have to be made in the case of
money received by the Court by money order or collected. Special provision for such
cases is made in these rules, the principle being that the money must be paid into the
Treasury by the Court on the same day. The Presiding Officer is responsible for
seeing that this is done.
43. Register of Receipts.- Only one register will be maintained under the Voucher
System and that is the "Register of Receipts" which is slightly different from the one
maintained for Sheriffs’ Petty Accounts and for the Cash System of Civil Court
Deposits; it is reproduced in Schedule B to these rules. The important point to bear in
mind is that this register is primarily a record of challans and vouchers issued, and
not of actual cash transactions.

DEPOSITS IN TREASURY
44. Application for deposit: How to be dealt with.- The deposits shall, where
branches of the State Bank of Pakistan have not been established, be made in the
Treasury. The depositors shall submit challan form in triplicate with the application to
the Court concerned. After verification and approval by the Court and after the Nazir
has made entries in columns 1 to 7 of the Receipt Register, the challans shall be
submitted by the depositor to the Treasury together with the amount for deposit. The
Treasury shall retain one copy, give the other to the depositor by way of receipt, and
send, on the next day, the third to the court concerned after noting thereon the date
and number of the entry in the Treasury register. The Nazir shall enter the date and
number in the Receipt Register under the initials of the Presiding Officer. The court
shall, at the end of every month, prepare a statement of deposit and send it to the
Treasury for verification and it shall be returned by the Treasury Officer within a
week.


--- Page 245 ---
238

DEPOSITS IN STATE BANK
45. Return of application by the Treasury.- The application together with the
Treasury challans in quadruplicate shall be received by the Court concerned. The
challans shall, after necessary verification and orders of the Presiding Officer and
after the Nazir has made entries in the Receipt Register, be returned to the depositor
for depositing the money in the State Bank while the application shall be retained by
the Court and the depositor directed to show the challan to the Court after deposit.
The Bank shall receive the amount along with the challans in quadruplicate and shall
return one copy of the challan to the depositor by way of receipt and send two copies
to the Treasury Officer, who shall retain one copy and send the other to the Court
concerned after noting thereon the number and date of the entry in the Treasury
deposit register. The Treasury shall send the challan form to the Court within two
days of its receipt from the Bank. The Nazir shall enter the deposit number in the
Receipt Register under the initials of the Presiding Officer. At the close of every
month the Court shall prepare a statement of all deposits made during the month and
send it to the Treasury Officer by the 5th of each month for verification from the
entries in the Treasury Register. The Treasury Officer shall return the statement,
after verification, within a week.
46. Remittance to Treasury of money received by money orders.- When money
is received by money order and dealt with in the "Court's Intermediate Register" as
provided in rule 10, the Nazir will prepare a formal application and the necessary
challan in duplicate, fill in columns 1 to 7 of the "Register of Receipts," and remit the
money to the Treasury after the Presiding Officer signs the application and the
challans in duplicate, and initials the amount in column 7 of the "Register of
Receipts."
47. Deposit by Bailiff or Court Auctioneer.- When money is to be paid in by a
Bailiff or a Court Auctioneer, he should be required to pay the money into the
Treasury himself as if he were a private depositor. The copy of the challan returned
by the Treasury to the Bailiff by way of receipt should be pasted into his note-book.
Note:- When money is realized by a Bailiff on a warrant issued by a Court not
situated at the headquarters of the Process Serving Agency to which he is
attached the challan will be prepared in triplicate by the Local Process Serving


--- Page 246 ---
239
Agent and signed by the Officer in charge of the Agency. On receipt of the money,
the treasury will retain one copy of the challan, return the second copy to the Bailiff
and forward the third, after noting thereon number and date of the deposit in the
books of the treasury, to the local Process Serving Agent for transmission to the
Court concerned so that the deposit may be entered in the Register of Receipts
maintained in that Court.
48. Money received to be sent immediately to the Treasury.- All money received
under Rule 46 must be paid into the Treasury on the same working day, or on the
morning of the next working day if received after the closing hours of the Treasury.
49. The names of both the actual depositor and the person on whose behalf the
deposit is made should be entered.- Where money is received either by money
order or through a Bailiff or Court Auctioneer, the words "By money order" or
"Through Bailiff" or "Through Court Auctioneer" as the case may be, should be
entered in column 5 of the "Register of Receipts" beside the name of the person from
whom the money is received. The Presiding Officer will then be responsible for
checking the Treasury receipt numbers and dates of these items with the challans
received back from the Treasury, which should be laid before him on the following
day. He should initial column 9 of the "Register of Receipts" in token of this check.
50. Treasury Receipt Number and date to be entered in Receipt Register.- When
the application is received back from the Treasury, the Nazir will enter the treasury
receipt number and date in column 8 of the "Register of Receipts" and the Presiding
Officer will initial column 9 after verification. The application will then be placed on the
judicial record of the case by the Ahimad concerned.
51. Deposits in re. prohibitory orders issued against salaries of Government
and Railway servants.- Deposits in Courts which maintain accounts according to
the voucher system in this section, in respect of prohibitory orders issued by them
against the salaries of Government servants, railway employees, etc., will be made
as follows:-
(i) Where a Government servant or railway employee, etc., is paid by an office which
is situated in a station other than that in which the Court issuing the prohibitory order
is located, the salary disbursing office must remit the amount to the Court by postal


--- Page 247 ---
240

money order, the postal money order commission being deducted from the amount
specified in the attachment order;
(ii) Where a Government servant or railway employee, etc., is paid by an office which
is situated in the same station at which the Court issuing the prohibitory order is
located the salary disbursing office must deposit the amount in the local treasury or
sub-treasury as a "Revenue Deposit" on a challan prepared by the salary disbursing
office in triplicate; one copy of the challan for record, one copy will be returned by the
Treasury Officer to the salary disbursing office as a receipt, and the third copy will be
forwarded by the Treasury Officer to the Court issuing the prohibitory order with the
number and date of the treasury deposit noted on it to enable the Court to make the
necessary entries in its "Register of Receipts" and place the challan receipted by the
treasury or sub-treasury on the judicial record of the case.
Presiding Officers of Courts shall endorse all prohibitory orders with clear instruction,
that is (i) or (ii) above as the case may be, to guide the salary disbursing offices how
to pay into Courts the money attached.

Payments by Voucher
52. Mode of payment.- No separate register for recording repayment of Civil Court
deposits will be maintained by the Nazir of the Court. On receipt of an application for
the repayment of such deposit, the Nazir or the Court will verify the item from the
"Register of Receipts" and put up the application along with the register and the
original record, if not already consigned to the record room for orders of the Presiding
Officer. After orders for repayment are passed by the latter, the Nazir will prepare a
voucher in form "C.A.C. Form No. 27," enter the particulars of repayment in the
"Register of Receipts" against the relevant item and will get both the register and the
voucher signed by the Presiding Officer of the Court concerned. He will then deliver
the voucher along with a memo. showing brief particulars of payment to the payee for
drawing money from the Treasury and place the application and the payee's receipt
for the voucher on record. The Treasury Officer will return the memo. to the Court
after recording thereon the number and date of the Treasury voucher and these
particulars should be noted against the entry of payment in the "Register of Receipts"
over the signatures of the Presiding officer of the Court.


--- Page 248 ---
241
53. Duplicate vouchers. If a second claim is presented for the amount shown in the
"Register of Receipts" as paid a duplicate voucher may, if necessary, be issued to
the payee after obtaining a non-payment certificate from the Treasury Officer, vide
Article 16 Civil Account Code, Volume I. This voucher should be distinctly marked
"Duplicate". A note regarding the issue of the duplicate voucher should be recorded
against the item in question in the "Register of Receipts" over the initials of the
Presiding Officer.
54. Voucher forms should be supplied in book form, stitched and machine
numbered.- Vouchers in form C. A. C. Form No. 27 are often supplied in unbound
form. The Courts should not accept vouchers in form C. A. C. Form No. 27 except in
book form stitched and machine-numbered.
55. Repayment by transfer credit to Government Account.- In the case of
repayment to be made by transfer credit to Government account, the voucher will be
prepared by the Nazir in the same way as laid down in rule 52 but signed by the
Presiding Officer of the Court who should note distinctly on the voucher.
"Received payment by transfer credit to--------------" (specifying the appropriate head
of account). On receipt of the voucher, the Treasury Officer will make the necessary
entries in his account by "debit to deposit" and credit to the head specified in the
voucher entering the amount in the relevant receipt schedule. Such vouchers need
not be stamped even though the amount involved exceeds Rs. 20.
Returns
56. Returns to be prepared by Treasury Officer.- All returns in connection with the
receipt and repayment of deposits for submission to the Accounts Office will be
prepared by the Treasury Officer and not by the Nazir of the Civil Court concerned.
CIVIL COURT DEPOSIT ACCOUNTS
SCHEDULE A
List of items which may properly be included in Civil Court Deposit Accounts.
1. Money paid into Court by parties in anticipation of judgment.


--- Page 249 ---
242
2. Pre-emption money.
3. Decretal amounts paid in by judgment-debtors or by their superior officers, when
their pay is attached, or by other Courts, on attachment of a decree.
4. Amounts realised in execution by Bailiffs or Court Auctioneers.
5. (Insolvency Court only): advertisement charges and realisations from estates
summarily administered.
6. (District Courts only): Compensation for land acquisition deposited by Collector.
7. Deposits for Court fee in Probate, Letters of Administration, and Succession
Certificate cases.
8. Compensation deposited with District Judges or Civil Judges appointed as
Commissioners under the Workmen Compensation Act.
9. Deposits under the Punjab Relief of Indebtedness Act/Ordinance.
10. Security required by a Civil Court and deposited by a party to a suit.
11. (District Courts only): Money realised in liquidation proceedings when this is not
paid into an account opened by the Liquidator with the State Bank/National Bank of
Pakistan.
12. Any other amount received by a Civil Court in a case and cannot be disbursed
immediately, provided that in no case will money be deposited in these accounts
which under other rules is straightaway to be credited to Government revenues.
Note:- No Court should receive money unless it is authorised to do so either by law
or by the rules of the High Court and in the absence of express authority, and of full
particulars, the deposit should be refused, otherwise, difficulties may arise over
refunds. All money received must be brought to account. In particular, it should be
noted that-
(i) (the taking of security in cash from subordinate officials is absolutely forbidden;
and
(ii) Guardianship Courts are not allowed to take money into deposit on behalf of
minors. Guardians frequently try to deposit money with the Court. They should be
required to deposit it with an approved Bank in accordance with the


--- Page 250 ---
243
rules on the subject. Other persons should be directed to make payment to the
guardian.
CIVIL COURT DEPOSIT ACCOUNTS
SCHEDULE B
List and specimens of registers and forms to be maintained or used by Courts
in Civil Court Deposit Accounts.
1. Note-Book of Execution Bailiff.
2. Register of Receipts (Cash system)
3. Register of Receipts (Voucher system).
4. Register of Disbursements (Cash system).
5. Cash-Book (Cash system).
6. Receipt form (Cash system)
7. Voucher form (Cash and Voucher systems).
8. Cheque (Cash system).
9. Challan form (Cash and Voucher systems).
10. Register of uncashed cheques (Cash system).
11. Treasury Pass Book (Cash system).
12. Form No. 28, Civil Account Code, Volume | (Cash system).
13. Clearance Register (Cash system).
14. Form No.47, Civil Account Code, Volume Il (Cash system).
15. Form No.29, Civil Account Code, Volume | (Cash system).
16. Form No. 30, Civil Account Code, Volume | (Cash and Voucher system).
17. Intermediate Register (Cash and Voucher systems).
receipt books.
18. Stock book of forms of -=---------zceeeeeenn
cheque books.


--- Page 251 ---
244

I I —
IE
of | x —
s[H [| |
AICHE

| CC ——
ENHE[ |
SAF CI
EE
IC —

I I EC
[7 CI

AAT
A FE
2 1 730


--- Page 252 ---
245

1 de [-
I AD
I I TE
lel ||
— Tm || §
Fo i © TO C8 |
i T
[Hs [-] A
ECE —r
S— 1
memo ragot hl

Cire] § | § <f
— 110 :
eo] mL lglel |g
meme nHEE
TEL PSD: REE 5) Fi CT
| Til BE
[| WEE le
EH
[LT
EE AT


--- Page 253 ---
246

1 0
EEE

= i |

» IE

F El {i

: | CO

1 [=| dm | |

g g [lg [|
«86 BLE
2 El ALBEE
ed gs gs] [5B [ |
gz ele # Jz |

+ -] #0 |]
71S 11

A —

J
OT) SO

| elle]
EET

Ec 1

= of [ |]


--- Page 254 ---
247
EEE
¥7| of
| [E
£ a
55
Ezp
EEC
“| 33
-9
i | 38
I | E28 ig
BE |B 2 2 52
EHO H
S
ke
Hy] |
3 |
FREE LIE
o
[| elif


--- Page 255 ---
248
~
- ih
; g
Z =
th 8 8 :
a i g
od -
So
ge
EISEN
H
: i
: 2g 8 £38 2
HE [fel Tord
: I)
BaF or
“SSESE : BE : E
H Szuz EN i=: By
Hi i BOER: za El
SHE IH Ff: 130s
he ELH 2 2 =
+H - x a) :
gE - fee Bo 2p
: 8 2)
: 5 E& zB
Hi
= w ER: :
| + : iE gs £= £
i e E] i 1 Ig 1 = HT i .
R jing of
= PS ;
| EEC EF


--- Page 256 ---
249
TTRTETETETE] IE 5
Els|2|5]8 7? fxd
HIE 23
£2 ® zz
z i 8 g2
§ : ged
i Pi

i : &2
2 ¢8
3s
2
|.

+

oe sm ce a sass wmmanans £2

a

SHIH 5
1ls(8]5|8 5 of
TIE: zz
FIR | 33
ARN :
* [ P z 52
3 qa Ez
| 582


--- Page 257 ---
250
- z
1TH LE.
£1528 g 3
o zi i 4%
: iit
Sa i
IE.
#3E BE :
<g8233 | 31 :
oh i : i
2355: J § EPH :
eel 1]
$58 2 5 3 |g
2343 iE S
“al i 3 f B
: 1
3 iy
NE
:
k-}
ill
: f


--- Page 258 ---
251

F

H

e,

{

£

i

2

we

3

>»

£E &asSc

> 2382

FE

3 zE5z
cl
"m

gz ="

: =

=

£

2

E-2

-

3

8

s

3

°

H

3


--- Page 259 ---
252
HS FEY
x § SSS of
gifs | Bf ie =:
HL i ii. 1. if
= 3 jus =:
E32” | 8 53 Sida | 23
Hn HE
HLH 228
FH ER] =i8
£ i
E :
Ef 83
Hy
- ue
erms== |. z
nZz2E
S35: 3
zE:32 2a]
8-55 | E [fad
#2383 | Ei
=< FRE
sez “3 .
3: |E[° :
$2 | =z
EE a EE
Z| 3 |ssd .
= ii Hi
:|2 2
2 HEL 3
Zw z
HE z
gt
HE
1 2
& it


--- Page 260 ---
253
NED B
z
ai
=x
CER £
wn
z 49 FE
s HE =
? 1% 28
$ EE Sz
] 2 ¥ zz
& = 5]
g ==
a 0
Fd £1
8 =
: £3 2g
EE 78)
] 83| 5 32
£ : 3f =z
£E = as 2
£ —1 = c8 RE
z i 9 Iq 22
§ HERR
i &f| 5 Po Ss
Z of s=3
5 g| 2 co5
4 z2
g +46 =%
EH is =)
= =z
g is =|
= a
g e
2 =]
= g g
Ed


--- Page 261 ---
254
g : -
EH is
8
| 3
3
3 E NEES
z
[=
2 Zz ER
SEL Li.
=| = 23s =
= © B fx g
5 £ 2g2 ©
2
Egg | 2 [ 0]
a Zz £ 3
die [[T1
FY be
ER A a 8
53 E 3 :
& AH ARS A SH a aa
ox = 9 < & POOPIE
= —- [54 g H
= E £25
g HS =
g I
Hi . E
EA
: B
$ gl £2
= g Fi
= -
z £3
“NE NA


--- Page 262 ---
255
Co
—
gz
wd
:
: fof
: i 7
rai
of i ti
{ 3 azs iTEz
: {IE $655
1 a Meal -| I
: AHEE
g HHH EH
1 CH
i : ;
fi I
——iii ji]


--- Page 263 ---
256
. EE —

E

3

€

p<

=

°

24

EE

of

23

-

2 g<
Ee 12
iE CT @ =F
sy = 3 f&
24 BN 7 85
Zs Z 3 is
8 3 £ :£%
z © €5s
IT Z=
=! =3
of B

4
ES
Ez
=

=

2

2

H

E

2

=


--- Page 264 ---
257
FORM No. 14,
Vide Rule 36
Form T. A. 44
(See Chap. IV, Art. 167)
[For use only where a duplicate (carbon) copy of Form T. A-21 is not utilised
for the purpose]
List of Repayments of Deposits of Treasury for the
month of 19 re
Details of original Deposit
Date of - Amount 43 Number of
Receipt Thom: son: Buiter Deposit Voucher agar


--- Page 265 ---
258
FORM No. 15.
Vide Rule 38
Form T.A, 49
(See Chap. IV, Art. 127)
STATEMENT OF LAPSED (}) DEPOSITS OF THE
Treasury, for the year 19
EEE
of Refund Refund
[wo [| 2 =H
Civil Criminal Courts or Revenue.


--- Page 266 ---
259
FORM Na. 16,
(Vide Rule 38)
STR 42
(See Ruie ST.R. 4.130)
Refund of Lapsed Deposits
To,
THE ACCOUNTANT GENERAL, PUNJAB
The following refunds of Lapsed Deposits aggregating
Rupees (in words) have been claimed by
of whose identity and title to the moncy | have satisfied myself, request your
sanction to the refund.
Particulars
of orignal Balance Date of
Class Depmit credited to Lapsed
of Government Statement
Deposits |
Te
Signature
The, 19
Judge, Magistrate or other Officer


--- Page 267 ---
260
iii
4 33
= li]
a al isc
g 54 2
z REN
g 15%
= PE I
Pi
Be | Ey
£= | }ii
at EE
cB
FR +
23 gE jii3
Z 3 25 iii
8128 | |i
: zesE
BIE 1]
ARE
i313
= =| 5843
a $3834
E (LPEre
3. ges8s
28
ZZ :
EZ | | hid
£8 Ha
: $314
£ pieiz
zt 2
i
|v


--- Page 268 ---
261
2
2 4
1:
z =
m— iL
— 3 =
Ei ol 51 =)
3 [857 -
gE 3
EP g
| 2
w
I 2
=
al =
AE
gl € 2
H - = =
z|a| = =
£15 % a 8
|e ~] g
T(3|2 g eg 2
[F121 5&8 Z
I TL
=
lM | 8
™m
a
.z g
iis 3
£37 s
i -
27
55%
Szs
FE
5 |


--- Page 269 ---
262
CHAPTER 9
RULES UNDER THE MUSSALMAN WAKF ACT,
1923....[Omitted).


--- Page 270 ---
1

Ah

RULES AND ORDERS

OF THE
LAHORE HIGH COURT, LAHORE
VOLUME III
INSTRUCTIONS
TO
CRIMINAL COURTS


--- Page 271 ---
2
CONTRIBUTIONS
PATRONAGE AND SUPERVISION
Hon'ble Mr. Justice Khalil Ur .Rehman Khan
Chief Justice, Lahore High Court, Lahore
REVISION OF RULES & ORDERS
Hon'ble Mr. Justice Khalil Ur Rehman Khan
(Volumes I, II, [Vand V)
Hon'ble Mr. Justice (Retd.) Malik Akhtar Hassan
(Volumes I and II)
Hon'ble Mr. Justice (Retd.) Chaudhary Fazal Karim
(Volume III)
Hon'ble Mr. Justice (Retd.) Rustam S. Sidhwa
Hon'ble Mr. Justice (Retd.) Saad Saood Jan
Hon'ble Mr. Justice (Late) Chaudhary Zafrunah Khan
(Volume V)
RULES COMMITIEE
Hon'ble Mr. Justice Malik Muhammad Qayyum
Hon'ble Mr. Justice Abdul Hareez Cheema
Hon'ble Mr. Justice Karamat Nazir Bhandari
SPECIAL ASSISTANCE
Hon'ble Mr. Justice Chaudhary Muhammad Nasim
SENIOR EDITOR
Syed Tjaz Qutub
Additional District & Sessions Judge
0.8.D. (Rules)
Lahore High Court
EDITOR
Muhammad Riaz
Deputy Registrar (Rules)
Lahore High Court
ASSIST ANTS
Muhammad Asghar Mughal
Superintendent (Rules)
Sh. Nasir Ali
P.A. to O.8.D. (Rules)
Muhammad Saeed
Assistant
SYSTEM ANALYST
Khalid Shakoor
COMPOSING
Sardar Muhammad
Data Co-ordinator
Muhammad Saeed Aslam
Data Co-ordinator
PUBLISHERS
Muttagqi Printers (Kausar Brothers)
I-Turner Road, Lahore


--- Page 272 ---
3
Key to the symbols used in Volume III:
* Suostl/utea viae lalJord Hi.Ib COUd Notification No. .334/Rules II, D.4.(I1I),
dated 21st September, 1996.
** ‘Added vide Lahore High Court Notification ibid.
hdd Omitted vide Lahore High Court Notification ibid.
Note: For original text ‘and earlier amendments therein, the previous edition(s)
of the Volume may be consulted.


--- Page 273 ---
1
Rules and Orders of the
Lahore High Court Lahore
VOLUME III. — Instructions
to Criminal Courts
CHAPTER 1
Practice in the trial of Criminal Cases
PART A -- GENERAL

1. Court hours and place of sitting.-- All trials held at the headquarters
of a district or sub-division shall be conducted during Court hours as may be fixed by
the High Court from time to time, at Court houses only. When it becomes necessary
to take up a case on tour, due notice of the place and hour fixed for attendance shall
be given to the parties:

Provided that nothing in this paragraph shall apply to the Courts set up to try
offences at the spot under the Minor Acts, such as traffic offences, cattle trespass
and forests offences, etc.]

2. “[Institution of ordinary petitions.]-- (a) A petition box shall be
placed in the verandah of the Court house at about one hour before the Court sits, an
official being specially made to attend early for this purpose. It shall be opened in the
presence of the Magistrate at about 15 minutes after the Court opens when all
petitions shall be presented and initialled by him. The Magistrate shall pass proper
orders forthwith or inform the petitioner when orders will be ready after the necessary
Kaifiyats have been put up. The box shall be replaced in the verandah and opened
again shortly before the Court rises for luncheon in the presence of the
Magistrate and the same procedure followed. It shall then be replaced once more
in the verandah and opened for the last time 15 minutes before the time fixed for
the rising of the Court and the procedure prescribed above followed. After
the Magistrate has risen, the box will be brought back to the Court room and
no further petitions will be accepted. A list of all


--- Page 274 ---
2
miscellaneous petitions, etc., on which orders cannot be passed forthwith, should be
prepared and exhibited outside the Court room specifying the date fixed for the
disposal of each petition.

(b) “[Urgent petitions.]-- In urgent cases, however, the Magistrate may
exercise his discretion and personally receive ‘[petitions] presented to him direct at
any time.

(c) The members of the ministerial establishment are strictly forbidden to
receive complaints, petitions or other documents direct from lawyers and their clerks
or from litigants except when the Magistrate is on leave and no other Magistrate is in
charge of his current duties. District Magistrates should, however, invariably make
arrangements for the reception of complaints, petitions, etc., by another Magistrate
when a Magistrate is temporarily absent on leave, tour or otherwise. Where there is a
single Magistrate at a station such as a Moffassil or outlying Court, District
Magistrates should issue such orders as may be necessary in the peculiar
circumstances of each case to ensure the convenience of the general public.

“[(d) Application put in by counsel for the inspection of records may be presented to
the Magistrate personally.]

3. Court house in an open Court.-- Section 352 of the Code of Criminal
Procedure lays down that the place where a Criminal Court is held, "shall be deemed
an open Court to which the public generally may have access so far as the same can
conveniently contain them," but the discretion to exclude the public from the ordinary
Court room rests with the presiding Magistrate. When, however, the presiding
Magistrate, for any reason, excludes the public by holding his Court in a building
such as a jail, to which the public is not admitted (and he is not entitled to do so
without permission of the Department concerned) he should obtain the sanction of
Government thereto, through the District Magistrate, and should inform the High
Court that sanction has been accorded.

4. Speedy disposal of cases.- Magistrates shall give priority to criminal
cases when an accused person is in custody. A criminal case shall be proceeded
with from day to day as far as practicable and disposed of quickly. Witnesses, who
are present, should be examined promptly and shall not be


--- Page 275 ---
3
detained longer than may be absolutely necessary. Adjournments, when necessary,
shall be as short as the circumstances permit.

4-A. tis not a reasonable cause of postponement under section 344 of the
Code of Criminal Procedure, 1898, except for a short period, that there are other
accused in the case for whose arrest it is considered by the Court desirable to wait in
order that all the accused may be put on their trial together. Every accused has a
right to have the evidence against him recorded at as early a period as possible.]

5 & 6 [Omitted]

Ir. Closing hour of Court.-- The hearing of a case taken up before
closing hour of the court may, if necessary, be continued for a short time after that
hour; but no new case should be taken up after the hour when the court is timed to
rise.]

8. Adjournments caused by holidays, etc.-- On the occurrence of an
unexpected holiday or the unexpected absence of an officer, the Presiding Officer,
before his departure or before finishing the work on the day preceding the holiday,
should himself fix fresh dates of hearing in the peshi register for the cases fixed for
the day in question. The register should then be made over to the reader of the court,
or in the case of a holiday to a selected reader, who should be made responsible for
informing all parties and witnesses of the adjournments given on their coming to
attend the closed court or courts. On holidays the duty Magistrate at headquarters
should check and supervise the work of the selected reader for the Criminal Courts at
least once in the course of the morning.

9. Daily progress reports.-- The forms prescribed for reporting the daily
progress of cases (see Volume VI-B, Part Ill, form No. 176) should be used by
Magistrates without fail and a copy should be sent daily to the District Magistrate or
Sub-Divisional Officer as the case may be.

10. Explanation of delay in quarterly statements.-- Magistrate shall
furnish in quarterly criminal statement No. Il explanations of delay in the disposal of
cases pending over 4 months. In this connection also see paragraph 6 of Chapter 23-
C, Volume IV.


--- Page 276 ---
4
1. History sheets.-- Magistrate shall submit history sheets containing
abstract of orders passed on different dates in all cases pending over one year
provided they are not stayed. When delay is said to be due to a transfer application
pending in a higher court, it is the duty of the higher court concerned to look into and
remark on the causes of delay and to expedite disposal of the transfer application.


--- Page 277 ---
5
PART B -- INITIATION OF PROCEEDINGS

1. [Omitted]

2. Right of accused for transfer of a case taken up by a Magistrate
on information or knowledge. - In most cases Magistrates take cognizance of an
offence on a complaint under clause (a), or on the report of a Police Officer under
clause (b) of sub-section (1) of section 190 of the Code of Criminal Procedure 1898.

A Magistrate taking cognizance of an offence under clause (c) of sub-section
(1) must, before any evidence is taken, inform the accused person that he is entitled
to have the case tried by another Court, and if the accused objects to being tried by
such Magistrate, the case must be sent in the case of a Judicial Magistrate to the
Sessions Judge and in the case of an Executive Magistrate to the District Magistrate
for being transferred to another Magistrate (section 191 Cr. P.C)]

3. Complaints how to be dealt with.-- Complaints of offences made in
writing should be received during office hours on all days other than public holidays.
Upon the institution of a complaint, the date of presentation should be immediately
endorsed thereon, together with the name of the Magistrate to whom the case is to
be sent for inquiry or trial under section 192 of the Code, and the complainant
directed to appear before him either the same day or one of the following days for
examination. Similarly if the complaint has not been made in writing, the Magistrate
should direct the complainant to the proper court.

‘[4. Complaints how to be dealt with. Oral examination of
complainant and preliminary enquiry. - The first duty of a Magistrate taking
cognizance of an offence on complaint is to examine the complainant upon oath,
except when the complaint is made in writing and (a) by a Court or by a public
servant acting or purporting to act in the discharge of his official duties, or (b) when a
Judicial or Executive Magistrate empowered under sub-section (2) or (3) of section
192 of the Code decides to transfer the complaint to a Judicial or Executive
Magistrate, as the case may be or (c) when the offence is triable exclusively by a
Court of Session.]

5. “'[Omitted.]


--- Page 278 ---
6

6. Importance of examination of complainant before issue of
process.-- The examination of complainants prescribed by the Code of Criminal
Procedure is not a mere formality, as the result of this examination enables the
Magistrate to determine whether he will put the machinery of the Criminal Court in
motion by issuing a summons or warrant to cause the attendance of the accused
before him. Section 203 lays down that if, in the judgment of the Magistrate, there is
no sufficient ground for proceeding, he shall dismiss the complaint. The preliminary
examination, therefore, if properly made, will frequently result in the summary
dismissal of a complaint and save an innocent person from the trouble and
annoyance of appearing at the bar of a Criminal Court. In the interests of the public,
therefore, as well as with a view to the rapid despatch of work, a careful observance
of the law in this particular is incumbent upon Magistrates.

Ir. No preliminary examination of complainant necessary in police
challans. - The power to hold a preliminary Magisterial inquiry into cases reported by
the Police, conferred by section 159 of the Code, should not be lost sight of. For the
duties of Magistrates in ordering remands to Police custody, Chapter 2 of this
Volume should be consulted. After completion of the investigation, the Police present
a report under section 173 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (usually called
"Challan"), and upon such a report a Magistrate can take cognizance under clause
(b) of sub-section (1) of section 190. In such cases no preliminary examination of the
complaint is necessary as in cases instituted on complaint under clause (a) of sub-
section (1) of section 190.]

8. Inquiry into nature of offence and other preliminaries in order to
see whether court has jurisdiction.-- The question of jurisdiction requires careful
attention at the initial stage. Schedule Il of the Code of Criminal Procedure shows the
classes of Courts by which different offences are triable. In determining the nature of
the offence, the facts ascertained by the examination of the complainant and
the preliminary inquiry (if any) should be taken into consideration and
importance should not be attached to the particular section specified or the
offence alleged in the complaint, as complaints are often drafted by men ignorant
of law, and there is also a tendency to exaggerate the nature of the offence. It
should be also remembered that certain offences cannot


--- Page 279 ---
7
be taken cognizance of at all except upon the complaints of certain persons or Courts
or with the previous sanction of the Government (vide Section [195 to 198-A of the
Code of Criminal Procedure)].

9. Jurisdiction also depends on the place of commission of
offence.-- The question of jurisdiction arises also with reference to the place of
inquiry or trial. The general rule prescribed by section 177 is that an offence shall be
ordinarily inquired into and tried by a Court within the local limits of whose jurisdiction
it was committed, but the subsequent sections create various exceptions to this rule.

10. Cases where place of commission of offence is uncertain.--
When, for instance, it is uncertain in which of several local areas an offence was
committed; or where an offence is committed partly in one local area and partly in an
other; or where the offence is a continuing one and continues to be committed in
more local areas than one; or where the offence consists of several acts done in
different local areas, -- it may be inquired into or tried by a Court having jurisdiction
over any of such local areas. The same rule applies to offences committed on a
journey, which may be inquired into or tried at any place through which the offender
or property affected passed in the course of such journey.

‘[11. Procedure where Magistrate thinks that he has no jurisdiction or
cannot impose proper sentence. -- If a Magistrate finds that the offence disclosed
is not triable by him, he should report the case, in the case of a Judicial Magistrate, to
the Sessions Judge and in the case of an Executive Magistrate to the District
Magistrate, for its transfer to a competent Court. Whenever a Magistrate of the
second or third class, having jurisdiction, is of opinion, after hearing the evidence for
the prosecution and the accused, that the accused is guilty, and that he ought to
receive a punishment different in kind from, or more severe than, that which such
Magistrate is empowered to inflict, or that he ought to be required to execute a bond
under section 106 of the Code, he may record his opinion and submit the
proceedings, and forward the accused to a Magistrate of the first class specially
empowered in this behalf by the Provincial Government.


--- Page 280 ---
8
PART C -- (i) ATTENDANCE OF ACCUSED PERSONS

1. When summons or warrants should issue.-- When a Magistrate
taking cognizance of an offence is of opinion that there is sufficient ground for
proceeding, he must decide whether a summons or a warrant should issue in the first
instance for the attendance of the accused. The fourth column of the second
Schedule of the Code shows, in regard to offences, whether a summons or a warrant
should ordinarily issue.

2. Discretion of Magistrate to issue summons or warrants.-- Even
where the law provides for the issue of a warrant in the first instance, a Magistrate
may, in his discretion, issue a summons. On the other hand, a Magistrate may, after
recording his reasons for so doing, issue a warrant instead of summons in a case in
which the law provides for the issue in the first instance of a summons. Section 90
and 204 of the Code should be referred to on this subject. The former section
authorises the issue of a warrant instead of a summons (1) where the Court has
reason to believe that the accused has absconded or will not obey the summons, or
(2) if, after service of a summons, the accused fails to appear and offers no
reasonable excuse for non-attendance "...]

3. Warrant should not issue unless absolutely necessary.-- Great
care should be taken not to issue a warrant when a summons would be sufficient for
the ends of justice. Magistrates should remember that the issue of a warrant involves
interference with the personal liberty of a person and should take care to see that no
greater hardship is caused than is necessary. Under section 76 of the Code, a Court
has the discretion to make the warrant bailable and this discretion should be
exercised with due regard to the nature of the offence, the position of the accused
person and the circumstances of the case.

4. Bail.-- When the accused person appears before the Court the
question of bail arises. In the case of a bailable offence, an accused person must be
allowed to remain at liberty if he can furnish bail for his appearance during the course
of the trial. A Magistrate has the discretion to allow bail even in the case of non-
bailable offences in certain circumstances. (For detailed instructions on the subject,
vide Chapter 10, Bail and Recognizance).


--- Page 281 ---
9

5. When attendance of accused may be dispensed with.-- A criminal
trial must be conducted in the presence of the accused but section 205 and 540-A of
the Code give a limited discretion to the court to dispense with his attendance in
certain circumstances.

6. Service of process.-- Detailed instructions as to the mode of issuing
and serving processes of the Criminal Courts are contained in Volume IV, Chapter 8,
"Processes". The provisions of the law relating to the service of processes on
persons employed in the public service require special attention.

PART C-- (ii) ATTENDANCE OF PRISONERS IN CRIMINAL COURTS

Attendance of prisoners in Criminal Courts.-- The attendance of a prisoner
in a criminal court is required either-

(a) to give evidence, or

(b) to answer a charge.

In the case of (a) above, if the prisoner is within the local limits of the
appellate jurisdiction of the “[Lahore High Court] any criminal court in the ™[...] Punjab
may issue a warrant for his production in the prescribed form as given in Schedule |
to the “[Prisoners' Act, 1900 (Ill of 1900)], without the intervention of the High Court.
Such a warrant may be forwarded direct to the officer in charge of the prison if it is
situated within the district in which his presence is required. In all other cases, it
should be forwarded through the District Magistrate or Sub-Divisional Magistrate
within the local limits of whose jurisdiction the prisoner is confined. This is, however,
subject to the condition that the warrant issued by a Court inferior to that of the
Magistrate of the Ist class should be countersigned by the District Magistrate of the
district. If, however, the prisoner is more than 160 kilometers distant from the court
where his attendance is required or beyond the local limits of the appellate
jurisdiction of the High Court, the matter should be referred to the Registrar of that
Court for action under section 39 or 40 of the aforesaid Act, as the case may be.

“[All warrants for the production of prisoners should be issued well in advance of the
date fixed for the hearing of the case. In the case of references made to the High
Court for the production of prisoners, the date should be fixed with due regard to
the distance involved and due notice should be given to this


--- Page 282 ---
10
Court. When the production of the prisoner is required under the orders of the High
Court, the warrant is prepared and signed by an officer of that court.]

When the evidence of a convict under sentence of death is required, the court
shall proceed to the Jail for the purpose, and shall not require the convict's
attendance under Part IX of the ‘Prisoners’ Act, 1900(II1 of 1900)]:

Provided that if the presence of a convict under sentence of death is required
by a Court of Session or High Court for the purpose of taking additional evidence in
the case under section 428 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1898, the convict's
attendance may be required under Part IX of the Prisoners’ Act, 1900 (Ill of 1900).


--- Page 283 ---
11
PART D -- PROCEDURE IN INQUIRIES AND TRIALS
BY MAGISTRATES

1. Charge to be framed.-- After the provisions of section 241 and 241-A
have been complied with and the accused appears or is brought before the
Magistrate, a formal charge shall be framed relating to the offence of which he is
accused. The charge shall be read out and explained to the accused and he shall be
asked whether he admits that he has committed the offence with which he is charged
(S.242Cr.p.C.).

The provisions of Chapter XIX of the Code deal with the framing of the
charge. Sections 221 to 223 show the form in which a charge must be framed and
the particulars which must be entered therein; and sections 233 to 239 show how
charges may be joined, when they should be in the alternative form, and what
persons may be charged jointly. Special care is required in the matter of joinder of
charges, for mis-joinder of charges against the express provisions of law may vitiate
the trial. Section 235 is also important and should be read with section 71 of the
Pakistan Penal Code.

Sub-section (7) of section 221 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1898,
requires that in all cases in which it is intended to prove previous conviction for the
purpose of effecting the punishment which the Court is competent to award, the fact,
date and place of the previous conviction should be set out in the charge. The
accused should then be asked whether he admits the previous conviction and his
reply should be recorded. If he denies then the conviction must be proved in the
manner prescribed in section 511 of the Code after the accused has been convicted
of the offence with which he is charged (S.245-A Cr.P.C.).

2. Conviction on admission of truth of accusation. - If the accused
admits that he has committed the offence with which he is charged, his admission
shall be recorded as nearly as possible in the words used by him; and if he shows no
sufficient cause why he should not be convicted, the Magistrate may convict him
accordingly (S. 243 Cr.P.C.).

It should be remembered that a plea of guilty can only be recorded when the
accused persons raises no defence at all. If, for example, he admits material facts,
but denies guilty knowledge or intention, the plea cannot be regarded as


--- Page 284 ---
12

one of "guilty". If the accused refuses to plead or pleads "not guilty" he should be
called upon to enter upon his defence after the prosecution case is closed. If the
accused puts in a written statement it must be placed on record. To avoid objections
of the accused in appeal or revision that no proper opportunity was given to call
witnesses to rebut the evidence for the prosecution the Court should, as a matter of
precaution, at the conclusion of the case for the prosecution, ascertain from the
accused whether he has any witnesses, and in any case in which no witnesses are
produced in defence, the court should record either that the accused does not wish to
call witnesses or that for reasons stated he has been afforded a further opportunity of
doing so.

3. Statement made under section 164. - Under section 244-A of the
Code of Criminal Procedure, 1898, the statement of a witness duly recorded under
section 164 of the said Code, if it was made in the presence of the accused and if he
had notice of it and was given an opportunity of cross-examining the witness, may, in
the discretion of the court, if such witness is produced and examined, be treated as
evidence in the case for all purposes subject to the provisions of the Qanun-e-
Shahadat 1984.]


--- Page 285 ---
13
PART E -- RECORD OF EVIDENCE IN CRIMINAL CASES

1. Only relevant evidence should be recorded.--In recording
evidence, Magistrates should take care to see that it is relevant and admissible under
the provisions of the [Qanun-e-Shahadat, 1984]. If any objection is raised as to the
admissibility of any evidence, the Magistrate should endeavour to decide it forthwith
and the particular piece of evidence objected to, the objection and the decision
thereon should be clearly recorded.

2. Duty of Court to elucidate facts.--Magistrates should endeavour to
elucidate the facts and record the evidence in a clear and intelligible manner. As
pointed out in 23 P.R. 1917, a Judge in a Criminal trial is not merely a disinterested
auditor of the contest between the prosecution and the defence, but it is his duty to
elucidate points left in obscurity by either side, intentionally or unintentionally, to
come to a clear understanding of the actual events that occurred and to remove
obscurities as far as possible. The wide powers given to the court by [Article 161 of
the Qanun-e-Shahadat, 1984] “...] should be judiciously utilised for this purpose
when necessary.

3. Mode of recording evidence.-- “[...] In cases falling under section
355 [of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1898] the presiding officer is required only
to record a memorandum of the substance of the evidence, while in those falling
under section 356 “[of the said Code], the evidence must be recorded in full. But in
the latter class of cases the presiding officer may, instead of recording the evidence
himself, have it recorded in his presence and hearing and under his supervision,
provided he makes a memorandum of the substance of the evidence side by side in
his own handwriting as the examination of each witness proceeds. On the other
hand, in cases falling under section 355, 356 “[of the said Code] also the Magistrate
may record the evidence in full if he thinks it fit to do so (e.g., when the evidence is
very important or when there is possibility of the witness being prosecuted for perjury,
etc.), vide section 358. Where the presiding officer is unable to record a
memorandum of the substance of the evidence as required by section 355 or 356
“lof the said Code], he must record the reasons of his inability to do so, and, in cases
falling under section 355, must have the memorandum recorded by dictation in open
Court.


--- Page 286 ---
14

4. Comparison of memorandum with vernacular statement.--An
omission to record the memorandum referred to above cannot be justified except
under circumstances which render it impossible for the Magistrate to record it. Want
of time cannot be accepted as a valid excuse. In these cases the Magistrate should
be careful to follow the deposition of each witness, when it is read over to him in the
vernacular in accordance with section 360 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, and
observe whether his memorandum is in conformity therewith. Any apparent
discrepancy between the vernacular statement and the English memorandum should
be explained in a note by the Magistrate under the memorandum. “[...]

‘5. Memorandum in English.--The Sessions Judges and Judicial
Magistrates exercising powers under section 30 of the Code of Criminal Procedure,
1898, shall keep a memorandum of the evidence in English, which should be as full
as possible.]

6. [Omitted].

7. Statement of a witness to be read over.--The statement of a witness
must be read over to him in the presence of the accused and corrected, if necessary,
according to the provisions of section 360 of the Criminal Procedure Code. “[...]

8. Evidence and judgment in summary trials.--In all summary trials in
which the order of the Magistrate is final, no evidence need be recorded in English or
Urdu; but the Magistrate should enter the particulars mentioned in section 263 of the
Code in a register to be kept for the purpose.

To. Particulars of witnesses or parties to be noted.- Care should be
taken to record the parentage, age, place of residence and caste of parties and
witnesses. When a person is known by two names, or his precise name is doubtful,
both should be given or doubt cleared up. It should also be noted whether a witness
is called by the prosecution, or by the defence, or by the Court.

Where age of a witness in view of the facts deposed to by him in his
statement, becomes relevant the presiding officer should ensure that he states it as a
fact after he has been summoned as a witness, so that it forms part of his


--- Page 287 ---
15
testimony. It is not enough that he has stated his age when giving his particulars].

‘[10. Examination-in-Chief.- Cross-examination and re-examination to be
distinguished by a note in the margin.- Examination-in-chief, cross examination and
re-examination of witnesses should be distinguished by a note in the margin. If a
witness is not cross-examined the record should show that the opportunity was given
but was not availed of.]

1. lllegible record.--The memorandum of evidence, the depositions or
statements should be carefully written in a legible manner “[or typed]. In cases
forwarded to the High Court, in which from any cause the memorandum or
depositions in question, or the final judgments have been indistinctly or illegibly
recorded, copies of such memoranda, depositions and judgments should be
submitted with the record of the case.

12. Documents on record should be duly proved.--Care should be
taken to see that all documents placed on the record, e.g., the first information report,
plan of the spot, medical certificates etc., are duly proved, As regards special rules of
evidence relating to Chemical Examiner's reports, please see Chapter XLI of the
Code of Criminal Procedure.

13. Demeanour of witnesses.-- [Courts] should not omit to make a note
about the demeanour of a witness when such demeanour is noteworthy and affects
their estimates of the value of the evidence given by the witness.

14. Record to contain a brief note of all material orders passed.--Each
record or memorandum of evidence should be dated and the record of a case made
by a Magistrate or Sessions Judge should not only contain depositions or
memoranda of evidence, according as the evidence is or is not recorded by him in
full, but also, in its proper place, a short note of every material order made during the
inquiry or trial, with the date on which such order was made. Every order of
adjournment must be entered, and the date on which the inquiry was resumed should
be apparent.

Notes:-Orders to be written by the Magistrate in his own hand.--All notes
and orders recorded by Presiding Officer (e.g., orders of adjournment, notes
regarding the presence of witnesses) other than depositions, orders


--- Page 288 ---
16

deciding any matter in dispute and the final judgment, should be written by the
Presiding Officer in his own handwriting “[or dictated] by him and be dated and
appended to the record. Each "order" or "note" should be clearly marked as such.

Notification re, Court language.--Under the provisions of section 558, of the
Code of Criminal Procedure, 1898 (V of 1898), the Provincial Government has
declared that Urdu shall be deemed to be the language of the Criminal Courts in the
Punjab.


--- Page 289 ---
17
PART F -- DISMISSAL OF CASES IN DEFAULT

1. “'[Omitted.]

2. Reasons for dismissal in default should be recorded.-- “[Cases
should not be dismissed in default hastily]. Before a case is dismissed by reason of
the absence of complainant, the Magistrates should carefully consider---

(a) whether such an order is legal; and

(b) whether it is justified by the circumstances.

Reasons should always be recorded for such a dismissal.

3. Instructions to be observed in re dismissal of complaints, etc., by
reason of the absence of the complainant.--In application for revision of orders
dismissing complaints or cases instituted on complaint, by reason of the absence of
the complainant, it is frequently urged--

(a) that the complainant was not called;

(b) that the case was dismissed very early in the day; or

(c) that the Magistrates being on tour, the complainant had no, or insufficient,

notice of the place of sitting.

(ii) The Magistrates’ records often furnish no definite information on any of
these points. The following instructions are accordingly issued for guidance to
subordinate Courts:-

(a) Magistrate should not dismiss complaints or cases instituted on
complaint without giving complainants full opportunity for appearance. Ordinarily, if a
complainant is absent when his case is first called on, his case should be called on
again later, and the time of dismissal should always be noted on the record.

(b) When the Magistrate is on tour, complaints or cases instituted on
complaint should not be dismissed unless the complainant has had due notice of the
place of hearing.

‘[c) In carrying out these instructions Magistrates should bear in mind that
if the summons has been issued on complaint and the complaint has been dismissed
on account of the absence of the complainant, the accused must be acquitted under
section 247 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, and that a complaint cannot be
dismissed on account of the absence of the complainant when the


--- Page 290 ---
18

offence of which the accused is charged is either cognizable or non-
compoundable.]

(d) Section 247 of the Code of Criminal Procedure does not apply when
the entire evidence in a case has been concluded and the case has been adjourned
only for judgment without the attendance of the complainant having been specially
directed.


--- Page 291 ---
19
PART G -- MISCELLANEOUS MATTERS IN CONNECTION
WITH INQUIRIES AND TRIALS
1. Age of accused persons, complainants and witnesses to be
carefully considered when the point is material.

In criminal cases, in which the age of an accused person, complainant or
witnesses, is material to the matter in issue, or is likely to affect the sentence, the
Court should record a careful finding as to probable age of such accused person,
complainant or witness, and should refer to, and comment on, any discrepancies
which there may be in the evidence on the point. In cases of doubt, “[the birth entry
should be obtained], or in its absence, the opinion of a medical officer should be
taken. The age of the accused as found or believed by the Court should be invariably
stated in the judgment. A careful statement of the probable age of the accused is
especially necessary in murder cases in which the person charged is a youth or is
very advanced in years. But in every case in which a charge is framed the accused
should, at the opening of his examination, be required to state his age; and in all
cases in which the age of the accused appears to the Court to be under twenty or
over fifty years, or to be material for any special reason, the [Court] should add a
note expressing his own opinion as to the probable age of the accused.

Note: [Omitted]

2. Medical examination of persons for purposes of evidence.

Neither the complainant, nor a witness, nor an accused person can be compelled to
submit to medical examination for the purposes of evidence. A criminal Court has by
law no power to order any person, whether male or female, to be subjected to
medical examination, though, where the consent of the person to be examined (or, in
the case of a minor, of his or her lawful guardian) has been obtained, such
examination may be authorised. The practice of ordering the medical examination of
a woman who has complained of an offence against her virtue is illegal without her
consent.

3. [Omitted].

4. [Omitted].

5. Exhibits.--(i) Sessions Judges and Magistrates should ordinarily pass
orders under section 517(1) of the Code of Criminal Procedure for the


--- Page 292 ---
20

disposal of exhibits on the conclusion of the trial. The time at which such an order is
to be carried out is governed by subsections (3) and (4) of section 517 of the Code of
Criminal Procedure. The order remains in force unless it is modified, altered or
annulled under section 520 of the Code of Criminal Procedure. If such orders are
made on the conclusion of the trial, the inconvenience of giving directions at a later
time, when the matter is no longer fresh in the mind of the Court, and the possibility
of a legal difficulty in making orders long after the conclusion of the trial will be
avoided.

(ii) “[L.] In respect to magisterial cases, exhibits, other than
documentary exhibits, should not be sent to the High Court, unless the High Court
calls for them, or unless the Magistrate considers that a particular exhibit will be
required in the High Court, in which case he should record a note at the foot of his
judgment that the exhibit should be forwarded to the High Court in the event of an
appeal or revision to the High Court.]


--- Page 293 ---
21
PART H -- THE JUDGMENT

1. Contents of a judgment.-- (i) In all cases a judgment must be drawn
up containing (1) the point or points for determination, (2) the decision thereon, and
(3) the reasons for the decision. In case of a conviction, the offence, the law
applicable, and the punishment awarded, must be entered in the judgment. In case of
acquittal, the offence must be specified and (if the accused is in confinement) a
direction given that he be set at liberty. When there are more than one accused, the
case of each should be dealt with separately.

(ii) Judgment should be dated, signed and pronounced in the
presence of the accused.-- The judgment should be written in the language of the
Court or in English; it should be pronounced in open Court, and dated and signed by
the presiding officer at the time it is pronounced. Except where the attendance of the
accused has been dispensed with during the trial, and the sentence to be passed is
one of fine only or when the judgment is one of acquittal, the accused should be in
attendance when judgment is pronounced. No Court has power to alter or review a
judgment once signed except for the purpose of correcting a clerical error, or for the
purpose of revising a sentence of whipping under section "[...] 395 of the Code.

(iii) Judgments not written by the Magistrate.-- When the judgment is
not written by the presiding officer with his own hand every page of it shall be signed
by him.

(iv) [Omitted].

wv) [Omitted].

(vi) [Omitted].

(vii) ~~ “'[Omitted].]

2. Criminal powers of the Courts should be noted in the record and
final order.-- Every Judicial Officer hearing, conducting or deciding a criminal
proceeding, trial or appeal is responsible that the record and the final order in such
criminal proceedings, trial or appeal shall disclose the criminal powers which such
officer exercised in hearing or deciding such proceeding, trial or appeal.


--- Page 294 ---
22

‘[3. The Powers of various Criminal Courts -- The powers referred to in
the above rule are the following:-

(i) Courts of Session:

(a) Sessions Judge.

(b) Additional Sessions Judge.

(ii) Judicial Magistrates:-

(a) Magistrates of the first class.

(b) Magistrates of the second class.

(c) Magistrates of the third class.

(d) Special Judicial Magistrates.

(e) Magistrates empowered under section 30 or 260 of the Code of

Criminal Procedure.

(iii) Executive Magistrates:

(a) District Magistrates.

(b) Additional District Magistrates.

(c) Sub-Divisional Magistrates.

(d) Special Executive Magistrates.

(e) Magistrates of the first class.

(f) Magistrates of the second class.

(9) Magistrates of the third class.]

4. Special powers to be noted in the record and final order.-- When
an officer exercises powers specially conferred, -- for example, the power to try
cases summarily, or the power to pass sentences of whipping in the case of a
Magistrate of the second class, the record and final order in any criminal proceeding
or trial shall disclose the fact that such officer is specifically empowered in that
behalf.


--- Page 295 ---
23

5. Separate Judgments in riot cases.-- In riot cases in which members
of opposite factions are separately tried, separate judgments should be recorded.
“01

re. Criticism on the conduct of Police and other officers.- It is
undesirable for Courts to make remarks censuring the action of Police Officers
unless such remarks are strictly relevant to the case. Whenever a Magistrate finds it
necessary to make any criticism on the work and conduct of any Government
servant, he should send a copy of his judgment to the Sessions Judge in the case of
Judicial Magistrate and to the District Magistrate, in the case of Executive Magistrate
who will forward a copy of it to the Registrar, Lahore High Court, Lahore.

Similarly, Sessions Judges shall also send a copy of their judgment
containing criticism of the work and conduct of police officers to the D.I.G. concerned.
They shall also send a copy of the judgment direct to the High Court.]

Award of Compensation and Costs.

7. Award of costs.-- Certain of the costs incurred by a complainant in a
complaint of a non-cognizable offence may be recovered from a convicted accused
in the manner provided in section 546-A of the Code. The costs incurred in enforcing
an order of a Magistrate for the removal of a nuisance may be recovered from the
person against whom the order is made in the event of his disobeying the order. The
costs, incurred by any party in the proceedings relating to dispute as to immovable
property under Chapter XII of the Code, may be awarded to him against any other
party by the Magistrate, and may be realised as if the amount awarded was a fine.
The costs incurred in proceedings under sections 87 to 89 of the Code, in dealing
with the property of persons absconding to avoid process, may be recovered from
such property.

8. Application of fine towards costs and compensation.-- When a
fine is imposed by a Criminal Court, the Court may order the whole or any part of the
fine recovered to be applied-

(a) in defraying expenses properly incurred in the prosecution;


--- Page 296 ---
24
(b) in compensation for any loss or injury caused by the offence
committed, where substantial compensation is, in the opinion of the
Court, recoverable by civil suit;

(c) in compensating bona fide purchase of stolen property.

Compensation not to be paid until appeal is decided.-- If the fine is
imposed in a case which is subject to appeal, the compensation must not be paid
away until the period for appeal has elapsed, or, if an appeal is presented, before it is
decided. Cases have occurred when the lower court has paid the compensation in
ignorance of the fact that an appeal has been lodged and later on when on appeal
the amount has been reduced or remitted, it has become impossible to obtain a
refund from the complainants. Therefore, the lower courts should not pay
compensation to the complainant until they are satisfied by examining the records of
the case and making a reference to the appellate court that no appeal or revision has
been lodged. Compensation so awarded must be taken into account in any
subsequent civil suit relating to the same matter (sections 545 and 546 of the Code).

9. Award of compensation to accused.-- (i) In the case of any offence
triable by a Magistrate and instituted upon complaint or upon information given to a
Police officer or to a Magistrate if the Court discharges or acquits all or any of the
accused and is of opinion that the accusation against them or any of them was false
and either frivolous or vexatious, the Court, by its order of discharge or acquittal, (a) if
the complainant or informant is present, may call upon him forthwith to show cause
why he should not pay compensation to such or each of such accused, or (b) if he is
not present, may direct the issue of a summons to him to appear and to show cause.

(ii) After recording and considering any cause, which may be shown, the
Magistrate, if satisfied that the accusation was of the character aforesaid, may, for
reasons to be recorded, direct the complainant or informant to pay to the accused or
to each or any of them compensation not exceeding ‘twenty five thousand] rupees
or, if the Magistrate is a Magistrate of the third class, not exceeding [two thousand
and five hundred rupees. (See section 250 CrPC)].

‘[(ii) The compensation payable under Section 250 is recoverable as
arrears of land revenue.]


--- Page 297 ---
25

(iv) An appeal is provided for in cases where the order is by a Magistrate
of the second or third class and where any other Magistrate has ordered the payment
of compensation exceeding Rs. 50. Where no appeal lies the amount of
compensation shall not be paid to the accused person or persons until the expiration
of one month from the date of the order. In other cases it shall not be paid until the
period allowed for the appeal has elapsed or the appeal has been decided. |...]

(v) If this provision of the law is enforced with discretion, it may be
expected to largely reduce the number of groundless and frivolous complaints filed.
In fixing the amount of compensation awarded, the Court should be careful to
consider the position of the accused as well as that of the complainant. Excessive
amounts should not be awarded.

Compounding of offences.

10. Acquittal of accused when offence is compounded.-- The
compounding of an offence under section 345 of the Code of Criminal Procedure,
with or without the permission of the Court, has the effect of an acquittal. In such
cases, no judgment on acts is needed, but the statement of all the parties concerned
must be recorded and in cases where permission of the Court is necessary for
compounding the offence the reasons for granting permission should be stated in the
order directing the acquittal of the accused.

1. Compounding cases of grievous hurt should be discouraged.--
There is a growing tendency to allow cases of grievous hurt to be compounded, and
from inquiries made it appears that in most districts Magistrates are too prone to
allow cases of the kind enumerated in section 345 (2) of the Code of Criminal
Procedure to be compounded, when the complainant asks for it. In some instances
this may be due to ignorance of the fact that the law allows the Courts discretion to
grant or refuse permission to compound, but there are indications that it is sometimes
due to the desire of Magistrates to get the cases disposed of as quickly as possible.
The effect of this practice must clearly be bad, and in districts where the people are
naturally turbulent and addicted to settling their disputes by force, it must encourage
crimes of violence.


--- Page 298 ---
26

12. Points to be considered before a compromise is permitted.-- The
facts of each case require careful consideration before a compromise is permitted. In
particular, the following points should be considered:

(a) Whether the assault was premeditated.

(b) Whether it was provoked in any way by the complainant.

(c) The nature and extent of the injury inflicted.

(d) The nature of the weapon or means used.

(e) Whether the compromise is the result of a genuine reconciliation, or

caused by undue pressure on the complainant.

(f) The relationship, if any, between the parties.

(9) The extent to which violent crime is prevalent in the locality.

In districts where crimes of violence are common, the interests of society
demand that permission to compound should ordinarily be refused when serious
injury has been caused, and a deterrent sentence of imprisonment should be
awarded, except when the assault has been provoked by any act of person injured.
In every case in which a Magistrate allows the parties to compromise, his reasons
should be recorded in his order.


--- Page 299 ---
27
CHAPTER 2
SUMMARY TRIALS...... **[Omitted]


--- Page 300 ---
28
CHAPTER 3
SECURITY CASES

1. [Omitted].

‘2. Important preliminaries. - In the first stage of the proceedings in
cases under sections 107 and 110 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, and before
actual enquiry is made in the presence of the accused, three points need attention,
viz:-

[Q))] the information (sections 107 and 110);

2) the order thereon, including the substance of the information (section

112); and

3) communicating the same to the accused (sections 113 and 115).]

3. Preliminary enquiry.-- The information is the foundation of the whole
proceeding, and the fact, that the Magistrate is acting upon information, should be
recorded. No information should be acted upon unless it comes from a trustworthy
source and is sufficient, if substantiated and not rebutted, to justify finding that the
person is himself likely to commit a breach of the peace or disturb the public
tranquility or to do any wrongful act that may occasion a breach of the peace or
disturb public tranquility (section 107) or answers to one or more of the specific
descriptions given in 110. In regard to proceedings under section 107, it should be
borne in mind that a person in the exercise of a lawful right cannot be bound over
merely because other persons object to the exercise of such right and there is
likelihood of their causing a breach of peace. “[...] Applications under section 107,
Criminal Procedure Code, are sometimes of a frivolous and vexatious character,
intended to bring pressure upon the opposite party to settle which is really a dispute
of a civil nature. Care should, therefore, be taken to ascertain by such preliminary
enquiry as may be necessary that there is sufficient ground for proceeding under the
section.

4. Contents of the order to proceed against.-- If the Magistrate deems it necessary
to proceed against the person against whom information has been received,
he should record an order setting forth the several matters required by section
112 of the Code of Criminal Procedure. The substance of


--- Page 301 ---
29
the information received should be stated in the order with sufficient fullness to
enable the accused person to understand clearly the matter he has to meet in his
defence. In recording particulars of the security required, the provisions of the proviso
to section 118 of the Code should be borne in mind.

5. Security pending inquiry.-- In proceedings under section 107,
Criminal Procedure Code, a Magistrate has the power, in cases of emergency when
a breach of the peace is imminent, to order the accused person to furnish security
pending the completion of enquiry [vide section 117 (3), Criminal Procedure Code].
He must in such cases record his reasons in writing.

6. Order to proceed to be communicated to accused.-- The order
recorded under section 112 of the Code of Criminal Procedure should be
communicated to the accused person, if he is present in Court, by reading the same
to him; and, if he so desires, by explaining the substance thereof to him. If the
accused person is not present in Court, a copy of the order should be annexed to the
process requiring his attendance, and delivered to him by the serving officer with the
process.

7. Form of process.-- Section 114 of the Code provides that the
process to be issued requiring the appearance of an accused person shall be a
summons, unless the person is in custody, in which case a warrant will issue to the
person in whose custody he is. If the Magistrate is satisfied that there are reasonable
grounds for apprehending a breach of the peace and that it cannot be otherwise
prevented, he may issue a warrant for the arrest of a person not in custody. In every
such case, the Magistrate should record the grounds which render the issue of a
warrant necessary.

I8. Procedure for the commencement of the trial.- After the preliminary
proceedings are completed and the accused appears before the Court the enquiry as to the
truth of the information upon which the Magistrate has acted shall be made, as nearly as may
be practicable, in the manner prescribed in Chapter XX of the Code of Criminal Procedure, for
conducting trials and recording evidence, except that no charge need be framed (S.117).
Care, however, is necessary that the person complained against shall have a full opportunity
of making his defence and of supporting it by witnesses, an adjournment being given, if
necessary for that purpose.


--- Page 302 ---
30

9. Proof required and exercise of discretion with caution.- (i) On the
conclusion of the enquiry, the Magistrate must consider the order to be passed. The
first point to consider is, whether the information against the accused is proved to be
true. In cases under section 110, if the accused is proved to be a person falling within
any of the descriptions stated in that section, the Magistrate should record a distinct
finding of the specific description which he considers proved. The words ‘by habit’ or
“habitually’ which occur in all the clauses of section 110, imply that the accused
person has done the alleged acts repeatedly, or persistently and this should be
capable of proof by adducing definite evidence under section 117(4) of the Code of
Criminal Procedure. Evidence of general repute is admissible, but mere suspicion of
complicity in this or that isolated offence may not be sufficient to satisfy the
requirements of section 119.

The Magistrates shall see that section 110 is not abused and is not resorted
to merely for securing punishment of persons who are suspected but not proved to
have committed an offence and to harass individuals or to take security from persons
who have once been accused and convicted of an offence but who have got off on
appeal. It cannot be too firmly impressed on all Magistrates acting under Chapter VIII
of the Code that when a conviction "fails on appeal", it is no conviction at all.

(ii) The object of the proceedings under section 110 of the Code of
Criminal Procedure is to deter and not to punish. A convict just released from jail
should not as a rule, be put upon security until there has been a fair opportunity of
judging whether the punishment he has already undergone is not in itself a sufficient
deterrent against relapse into evil courses. Then, in cases under section 110, proof of
habitual misconduct will ordinarily justify the conclusion that security is necessary,
but the Magistrate has a discretion in the matter, and he may not, in the
circumstances of a case, dispute the proof of habitual misconduct, to make an order
of security.]

10. Nature, amount and period of security.-- If the Magistrate decides
that security is necessary the next step is to determine—-

(1) the amount and nature of security to be given; and
(2) the period for which it is to be given.


--- Page 303 ---
31

In considering these points the Magistrate should be careful to refer to the
original order to see that the security and the period therein specified are not
exceeded. Further, as to amount of the bonds is to be fixed with due regard to the
circumstances of the case and is not to be excessive, it should appear upon the
record that the security demanded is not disproportionate to the ability of the accused
person to furnish it, having regard to his status in life.

11. Age of accused.-- When the appearance of the [person complained
against] leaves it doubtful whether he is a minor, his age should be ascertained.

12. Action to be taken when security is not necessary.-- If it is not
proved that security is necessary, the Magistrate [shall] act under section 119,
according as the person is in custody, for the purpose of the enquiry merely, or is not
in custody.

13. Final order should state full particulars about bonds required.--
When the final order is made under section 118, it should state clearly--

[Q))] the amount of the bond;

2) whether it is to be with or without sureties, and the number of such

sureties;

3) the period for which security is to be given.

If the proceedings are in English, the order must be translated into [Urdu] and
signed by the Magistrate.

14. Joint trials and period of security.-- It is frequently found that-

(i) several persons are proceeded against jointly, although there is little
or no evidence that they are really associated together for the purposes of any of the
crimes referred to in section 110 of the Code of Criminal Procedure;

(ii) security is demanded for a period exceeding one year without any
reason, such as previous convictions for serious crime, or previous taking of security,
being assigned for the step.

The irregularity of the first proceeding has been pointed out in more than one
published decisions of the High Court, and, as regards the second point, the Judges
are of opinion that the period for which security is demanded should not


--- Page 304 ---
32
in ordinary cases exceed one year, and where special reasons exist for enlarging
the period, these should be duly set forth in the order.

15. Bond should be single and no stamp is required.-- It has been
noticed that in many Courts the practice is to require the accused person to execute
one bond, and the sureties, separate bonds (sometimes for separate amounts). This
is not in accordance with law. The person, from whom security is taken, and his
sureties should all execute only one joint bond, in the form prescribed in the Code of
Criminal Procedure, Schedule V (Form XI).

The bond is exempt from stamp duty, as regards the sureties, under
Government of India Notification No. 4650, dated 10th September, 1889, and as
regards the principal under section 19, clause (xv) of the Court Fees Act, 1870.

16. Commencement of period of security, suspension of order and
Form of warrant when security is not furnished.-- When the person from whom
the security is required is not under sentence of imprisonment, or undergoing such a
sentence, the period commences to run from the date of order, unless the
Magistrate, for sufficient reason, fixes a later date. If the Magistrate has reason to
believe that the person required to give security will do so if a short time be allowed
for that purpose, the Magistrate should defer execution of his order by suspending it,
and thus obviate the necessity for requiring such person to at once suffer
imprisonment. If, however, the requisite security is not given on the date fixed, the
person from whom the security is required must be committed to prison under section
123, with a warrant in Form XIV of Schedule V of the Code of Criminal Procedure, if
the period fixed does not exceed one year. When the period exceeds one year, the
form must be varied so as to bring its last clause into conformity with the second
clause of section 123; and the proceedings must be laid, as soon as conveniently
may be, before the Court of Session.

‘17. Kind of imprisonment in default of security.-- Imprisonment in
default of furnishing security under section 107 or section 108 must be simple, while
under section 109 and section 110, it may be simple or rigorous at the discretion of
the Magistrate (vide sub-section (5) and (6) of section 123).


--- Page 305 ---
33

Completion of record before consignment.- Before consigning the record
to the record-room care must be taken that the record is made complete by filing
either the security-bond or a copy of the warrant of commitment.]

18. [Omitted]

19. [Omitted]

20. [Omitted]

21. Restriction order instead of security may be proper in certain
cases. The provisions of the [Restriction of Habitual Offenders (Punjab) Act,
1918(V of 1918)] which permits an order of restriction being passed in lieu of an
order under section 110, Criminal Procedure Code, should be utilised in appropriate
cases, when there is no chance of security being furnished and an order of restriction
would serve the object in view.

22. [Omitted].


--- Page 306 ---
34
CHAPTER 4
TRIAL OF RIOT CASES

1. Careful handling required.-- Riots resulting in serious injuries or
even death are of frequent occurrence in this Province, and cases relating to such
riots require very careful handling. A large number of persons is generally involved
and the evidence is often entirely of a partisan character. There is, moreover, great
danger of innocent persons being implicated along with the guilty, owing to the
tendency of the parties in such cases to try to implicate falsely as many of their
enemies as they can.

2. Court's duty to ascertain the true version.-- The parties generally
give widely divergent versions of the riot and in such cases the Police usually
prosecute members of both the parties and place the divergent versions and the
evidence in support thereof before the Court. It is for the Court to ascertain in such
cases which of the two versions is correct and the Court cannot shirk this duty on the
ground that the Police did not ascertain which of the stories was true. "...]

3. Right of self-defence.-- When both parties deliberately engage in a
fight no question of the right of self-defence arises. But, otherwise, the question as to
which of the parties was the aggressor and which was acting in self-defence
becomes of vital importance and the Court must do its best to arrive at a finding
thereon for the party acting in self-defence cannot be held to be guilty of any offence
unless the right of private defence is exceeded (see sections 96-106, Pakistan Penal
Code.)

‘[4. Separate trials when both parties are prosecuted.- When both
parties to a riot are prosecuted, the two cases must be tried separately and evidence
in one case cannot be treated as evidence in the other, even with the consent of the
parties. Similarly judgements in such cases should be written separately and the
evidence in the one case should not be imported into the judgment in the other. Even
when the Court is careful enough not to mix up the evidence, the mere fact of its
having written one judgment furnishes the convicts with a ground of appeal.]


--- Page 307 ---
35

5. Case of each accused should be separately sifted.-- In recording
evidence in riot cases, care should be taken to bring out distinctly as far as possible
the connection of each of the accused with the crime and the actual part played by
him. In the judgment the evidence against each of the accused should be discussed
separately along with the evidence produced by him in defence (if any), and should
be scrutinised with care. The possibility of innocent persons being falsely implicated
should be always borne in mind. The mention or omission of the name of an accused
person in the First Information Report, when such report is made promptly by an eye-
witness, and the presence or absence of injuries on his person are worthy of
consideration in this respect, though these are, of course, by no means conclusive.

6. An unlawful assembly, its common object and use of violence
must be proved.-- A charge of rioting presupposes the existence of an unlawful
assembly with a common object as defined in section 141 of the Pakistan Penal
Code. No charge of rioting can be sustained against any person unless it is proved
that he was a member of such an unlawful assembly, and that one or more members
of the assembly used force or violence in prosecution of its common object. It is,
therefore, advisable to refer to the unlawful assembly, its common object, and the
use of violence in the charge, so that the essential ingredients of the offence are not
lost sight of. “[...]

‘[7. Joint liability of accused.- Section 149 of the Pakistan Penal Code,
makes every member of an unlawful assembly constructively liable for offences
committed by other members in prosecution of the common object of the assembly. If
the number of offenders is ultimately found to be less than five, this section will not
be applicable, but joint liability may still arise by virtue of section 34 of the said Code,
if it is found that the act constituting the offence was committed in “furtherance of the
common intention of all. When no joint liability can be established, each accused
person can be held responsible for his own acts. (See 61 PR 1887, 52 ILR Cal. 197).

8. Sentences when several offences are committed.- When a
number of offences are committed by members of an unlawful assembly in the
course of the riot in prosecution of their common object, each member is guilty not
only of rioting but of every other offence committed by himself or by the


--- Page 308 ---
36
other members of the unlawful assembly. Under section 35 of the Code of Criminal
Procedure he is liable to be punished separately for each of such offences, subject to
the provisions of section 71 of the Pakistan Penal Code. Section 35 of the Criminal
Procedure code enables the Court to make the sentences for two or more of such
offences concurrent. The appropriate sentence in the case of each accused person
must, of course, be determined in view of all the circumstances of the crime and the
actual part played by him. (See 4 PR 1901).]


--- Page 309 ---
37
CHAPTER §
CASES UNDER SPECIAL AND LOCAL ACT......**[Omitted.]


--- Page 310 ---
38
CHAPTER 6
TRIAL OF RIOT CASES
PART A — GENERAL

1. Cases against public servants or local bodies should be reported
to District Magistrate.- A Magistrate taking cognizance of an alleged offence
against a *[Government servant] or a Local Body shall report, without delay, to
District Magistrate to whom he is subordinate the commencement of such
proceedings together with brief details of the case. The District Magistrate will
forward a copy to the local department officer in charge of the Department to which
the accused belongs-a further report will be sent in the same way on the termination
of the proceedings, stating whether they have terminated in conviction, discharge or
acquittal.

In cases of conviction, a copy of the judgment must be forwarded.

2 ***[Omitted]

3. Copies to be supplied free to departmental officers.-- For rules
about supply of free copies to departmental officers in such cases see Rule 8-A,
Chapter 17-A, High Court Rules and Orders, Volume IV.


--- Page 311 ---
39
PART B — CRIMINAL CASES AGAINST POLICE OFFICERS.

*[1. District Magistrates shall not ordinarily try cases against Police
Officers.- The High Court, with the approval of the Provincial Government, is
pleased to direct that all charges against Police Officers, which are triable by ordinary
Courts, shall ordinarily be inquired into and tried by Judicial Magistrates of the First
Class.]

2. *** [Omitted].

3. Criticism of conduct of Police officers in judgments.-- For
judgments criticizing the conduct of Police see Chapter 1-H., paragraph 6.

4. Action to be taken on such criticism.-- Attention is also invited to
Police Rule 16.38 (6) which runs as follows;-

“in cases in which strictures are passed on the conduct of the police by a Sessions Court or
by a Magistrate's Court and no specific recommendation is made by the Court making such
strictures that an enquiry should be made, the District Magistrate will decide whether an
investigation into the matter is necessary and if so whether it shall be conducted by the Police
officer or by a selected Magistrate having Ist class powers. If he decides that an investigation
shall be made, the procedure subsequent to such investigation shall be that laid down in sub-
rule (2) above. In cases in which the court passing strictures on the conduct of the police
suggests that an enquiry should be made, the District Magistrate will comply with such
request in accordance with the procedure prescribed in paragraphs (1) and (2) above.

When strictures on the conduct of the Police are made by the High Court and communicated
to the Provincial Government direct in accordance with paragraph (5) above, the instructions
of Government as to the action to be taken by the local authorities will be communicated to
them through the ordinary channels. In cases in which the High Court suggests that an
enquiry should be made, the Provincial Government will give orders accordingly.”


--- Page 312 ---
40
PART C — CRIMINAL CASES AGGECTING MILTARY
OFFICERS AND SOLDIERS.

1. Cases to be tried only by District and Ist Class Magistrate.
Criminal cases against military officers and soldiers should only taken up by district
Magistrate or Magistrates of the first class, and this direction should be strictly
observed.

2. Copy of Judgment to be sent to superior officer of accused.-

In every case in which a military officer or a soldier is sentenced by a Criminal Court
to a fine of Rs. 200 or upwards, or to imprisonment otherwise than in default of
paying a fine not amounting to Rs. 200, the Court shall send a copy of its final order
proprio motu to the immediate superior of the person convicted.

3. Military rank of accused to be stated in the warrant of committal

to prison.—
Whenever a soldier is committed to jail, whether for trial or under sentence, his
military rank shall always be stated in the warrant of commitment, in order that due
notice may be given to the military authorities of the day on which, and hour at which,
the imprisonment of such person will expire.

4. Information of conviction to be sent by Cantonment Magistrate to

superior officer.
When a person amenable to Military Law is convicted of any offence by a
Cantonment Magistrate, information in the form given below shall be furnished by
such Cantonment Magistrate to the superior officer of the person so convicted;-

Form of Information
Name (and Mililtary Offence of Sentence
rank) of person
convicted
rr [7]
5. Information of conviction of pensioned officers.- *[Whenever a
Military Pensioner is convicted and sentenced to imprisonment by a Criminal


--- Page 313 ---
41
Court, a copy of the judgment shall be sent at once to the Deputy Controller of
Military Accounts (Pensions), Lahore]

Criminal Courts subordinate to the District Magistrate will send copy of every
such judgment to the District Magistrate who will forward all such copies of
judgments, of his own or subordinate courts, to the Deputy Controller of Military
Accounts (Pensions), Lahore.

The same instructions apply to appellate courts and copies of judgments
passed on appeal, if any, shall be forwarded to the officers named above.

6. Information of conviction of Army reservists.-
Whenever a reservist of the Pakistan Army is sentenced by a Criminal Court to
imprisonment for any term exceeding three months, the fact shall be reported in the
manner prescribed in the last preceding paragraph, without delay to the Officer
Commanding of the appropriate Reserve Centre.

7. Rules for retyrial of persons subject to Military, Naval or Air Force Law.-
(1) The Criminal Procedure (Military Offenders) Rules 1970, provide that where a
person subject to Military, Naval or Air Force law is brought before a Magistrate, and
charged with an offence for which he is liable under the Pakistan Army Act, 1952
(XXXIX of 1952) the Pakistan Navy Ordinance, 1961 (XXXV of 1961) or the Pakistan
Air Force Act, 1953 ( VI of 1953) to be tried by a Court-Martial, such Magistrate,
unless he is moved by the competent Military, Navel or Air Force authority as the
case may be to proceed against the accused under the Code, shall before so
proceeding, give notice to such authority and, until the expiry of a period of fifteen
days from the date of service of such notice shall not-

(a) convict the accused under section 243, acquit him under section 247
or section 248, or hear him in his defence under section 244 of the code, or

(b) frame charge against the accused under section 242 of the Code, or

(c) transfer the case for enquiry or trial under section 192 of the Code.

(2) Where, within the period of fifteen days mentioned in rule 2, or at any time
thereafter, before the Magistrate has done any act or issued any


--- Page 314 ---
42
order referred to in that rule, the competent Military, Naval or Air Force authority, as
the case may be, gives notice to the Magistrate that the accused should be tried by
Court-Martial, the magistrate shall stay proceedings and, if the accused is in his
power or under his control, shall deliver him, with the statement prescribed by section
549 of the Code, to the authority specified in the said section.

(3) Where a Magistrate has been moved by the competent Military, Naval or
Air Force authority, as the case may be, under sub-paragraph (2), and such an
authority subsequently gives notice to such Magistrate that, in the opinion of such
authority, the accused should be tried by Court-Martial, such Magistrate, if he has
not, before receiving such notice, done any act or issued any order referred to in rule
2, shall stay proceedings, and if the accused is in his power or under his control, shall
in like manner deliver him with the statement prescribed in section 549 of the Code to
the authority specified in the said section.

(4) Where an accused person, having been delivered by the Magistrate under
sub-paragraph (2) or (3) is not tried by a Court-Martial for the offence of which he is
accused, or other effectual proceedings are not taken, or ordered to be taken against
him, the Magistrate shall report the circumstances to the Provincial Government.

(5) (i) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in sub-paragraphs
(2), (3), or (4), where it comes to the notice of a Magistrate that a person subject to
Military, Naval or Air Force law has committed an offence proceedings in respect of
which ought to be instituted before him, the Magistrate may by a written notice
require the competent Military, Naval or Air Force authority, at the option of such
authority, either to deliver such person, if in its custody, to the nearest Magistrate for
being proceeded against according to law, or to stay the proceedings against such
person before the court-martial, if since instituted, and to make a reference to the
Federal Government for determination as to the Court before which proceedings
should be instituted.

(ii) The competent Military, Naval or Air Force authority to whom a notice is
issued under sub-paragraph (1) shall either deliver the offender in


--- Page 315 ---
43
accordance with the notice or refer the question of the trial to the Federal
Government, whose order upon such a reference shall be final.

(6) In these rules, unless there is anything repugnant in the subject or
context-

(a) "Code" means the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1898 (V of 1898);

(b) "Competent Military Authority" means an officer having powers not less
than those of an independent Brigade or Line of Communication Sub Area
Commander under whom, or the Officer Commanding the Station in which the
accused person is serving, provided that where death has resulted, the competent
authority shall be an officer having powers not less than those of an independent
Brigade or Line of Communication Sub Area Commander;

(c) "Competent Naval Authority" means the administrative authority under
whose command the accused is serving or is attached or any superior authority,
provided that where death has resulted, the competent authority shall be the
Commander-in-Chief;

8. Dual jurisdiction of court-martial and Civil Court and the prescribed
authority to decide by whom the case to be tried.-
The following procedure shall be observed in a case where there is dual jurisdiction,
i.e. of a court-martial as well as a Civil Court, as laid down in the Pakistan Army Act,
1952 (XXXIX of 1952) section 94 and 95; the "prescribed officer" being the General
Officer Commanding-in-Chief, district Brigade or Station Commander.

If the offender is in Military/Civil custody the Units Commander/Magistrate will
take steps to request the prescribed military authority to decide before which court
proceedings shall be instituted; but in those cases falling under section 59 of the
Pakistan Army Act, 1952, in which death has resulted, the decision shall rest with the
district Commander or General Officer Commanding-in-Chief.

9. Procedure in cases of civil offences.--
Appendix IX to the " Regulations for the Pakistan Army, should be referred to
regarding the general procedure to be followed in cases of civil offences
committed by persons subject to military law.]


--- Page 316 ---
44
CHAPTER 7
MAINTENANCE CASES........”*[Omitted.]


--- Page 317 ---
45
CHAPTER 8
Cases relating to Offences affecting the Administration of justice and
Contempt of Court.
PART A — OFFENCES AFFECTING THE ADMINISTRATION OF JUSTICE

*[1. Complaint of offences mentioned in section 195 Cr. P.C. cannot
be instituted by private individuals.-

Under section 195 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, no court can take
cognizance of the offences mentioned therein except on the complaint of the
public servant or Courts specified in the section. The institution of proceedings is
thus now left to the public servants or Courts concerned in the interest of justice
and not to the discretion of private individuals who might obtain sanction for
prosecution for the purpose of extorting blackmail from the person sought to be
prosecuted against.

2. Successor of an officer before whom offence was committed can
lodge complaint.- Section 476-A of the Code is supplementary to section 195
and it would appear from the wording of these sections that Courts can take
cognizance of the offences mentioned therein suo motu or on application. The
power is conferred on the court and not on the particular officer who presides
over the Court and consequently the successor of a Magistrate or Judge is
competent to proceed under the section (See section 559 of the Code).

Under section 476 of the Code, the Court may itself take cognizance of the
offence and try it in accordance with the procedure prescribed for summary trials
in Chapter XXII of the Code. When it does so, it may, notwithstanding the
limitations prescribed in sub-section (2) of section 262 of the Code, pass the
sentence in accordance with sub-section(2) of section 476.

When the Court considers that the person accused should not be tried
summarily under section 476, it may, after recording the facts constituting the
offence and the statement of the accused person, forward the case to a court
competent to try the offence and may require security to be given for the
appearance of such accused before such court or if sufficient security is not
given, shall forward such person in custody to such court.


--- Page 318 ---
46

3. Main point to be considered by courts in initiating proceeding

under section 476, Cr. P. C.-
The power conferred y sections 476 and 476-A of the Code is a discretionary
power and it is obvious that it should be examined not merely because an
interested party wants a man to be proceeded against, but only when it is
expedient in the interest of justice to examine it. The power being the power to
prosecute and thereby to put a man in peril of conviction and sentence, it is well
settled that resort should not be had to it unless a prima facie case is made out
and unless there is reasonable chance of conviction. It must be borne in mind this
connection that indiscriminate institution of prosecution does not promote that
interest of justice as failure of such cases is apt to encourage rather than
discourage the offences. Then the mere fact that there is reason to believe that
an offence has been committed may not in itself be sufficient to justify the
prosecution of a man. As an example, it happens sometimes that a man, who has
made a false statement at first, reverts to truth later on. To proceed against such
a man for perjury would invariably be not in the interest of justice, as it would
deter a man from reverting to truth even when he is inclined to do so.

That there is power in the Court, either to proceed against a person summarily under
section 476, or to send his case for trial to another court, under section 476-A, shows that
this question requires the application of judicial mind. In proceeding against a person
under these provisions, a Court will be presumed to have been actuated by best motives
of justice and fair play; yet during the hearing of the matter or examination of the person,
something may have happened to leave him with a genuine impression that he will not
have a fair trial. To illustrate, the presiding officer may have put too many questions to the
person when under examination. Therefore, when the Presiding Officer feels that the
summary trial of a person by him would violate the trite saying that justice should not only
be done, but should be seen in the doing, he would exercise his discretion in favour of the
person accused to be tried by another Court.]

4. Prosecution to be lodged without delay.--

There is nothing in section 476 which requires the Court to take action,
if at all, immediately after the conclusion of the case in which the offence
is alleged to have been committed or discovered or within any
fixed time thereafter. Prompt action is of


--- Page 319 ---
47
course desirable, and abnormal delay will usually be considered to be a good
ground for refusing to take action. At the same time, Courts would, as a rule,
exercise proper discretion in postponing action in appealable cases, till the
decision of appeal, if one is filed. ***[...]

*[5. Gross cases of false evidence should not be left over.-

The offence of giving or fabricating false evidence (vide sections 191-196 of the
Pakistan Penal Code) is unfortunately very common and should not be allowed to
pass unnoticed.]

6. Special care to be taken in recording evidence where a witness appears
to be giving false evidence. Contradictory statements and liability of being
charged.- When a witness appears to be giving false evidence and there is
possibility of his being prosecuted, special care should be taken in recording the
evidence in a precise and clear manner, reading it over to the witness and
bringing it in conformity with what he declares to be the truth. For, ambiguities in
the statement often furnish loopholes for plausible explanations and result in
failure of justice. It should be noted that when contradictory statements are made
before different Courts, and it is difficult to decide which of the two statements
was false, the person making such statements can be charged in the alternative
[vide section 236, Criminal Procedure Code, illustration (b).

7. *+[Omitted].

8. Complaint can be lodged by the Court or by appellate Court.-
Section 195 provides that when any offence of the kind mentioned therein is
committed in or in relation to proceedings in a Court, cognizance of the offence
can be taken either on the complaint of that court or some other Court to which
such Court is subordinate. It is laid down in subsection (3) of that section that for
the purposes of the section a Court is to be deemed to be subordinate to the
Court to which appeals ordinarily lies from the appeasable decrees or sentences
of such Court and in the case of a Civil Court from whose decrees no appeal
ordinarily lies, to the principal Court of original jurisdiction. It is further provided
that where appeals lie to more than one Court, the appellate Court of
inferior jurisdiction is the Court to which the Court making the complaint is to
be deemed to be subordinate for the purposes of the section.


--- Page 320 ---
48

As a result a Civil Judge from whose decrees appeals lie to the Senior Civil
Judge as well as the District Judge must be deemed to be subordinate to the
former for the purposes of section 195. ***[...] Similarly a Magistrate empowered
under section 30 of the Code, from whose decisions appeals lie to the Sessions
Court as well as the High Court, would be deemed to be subordinate to the
Sessions Court.

9. ***[Omitted]

10.  ***[Omitted]

*[11. Deterrent sentence in case of perjury.--
The law against perjury and allied offences should be fully vindicated against all

persons who are convicted and the Courts should impose deterrent sentences when
convictions are recorded.]


--- Page 321 ---
49
PART B — CONTEMPT OF COURT.

*[1. Court can try the offence itself or send the case to another court.
Appeal from conviction -- Contempt of Court is not defined either in the Pakistan
Penal Code or in the Code of Criminal Procedure. The acts which constitute the
contempt of Court are, however, defined in Article 204 of the Constitution and in the
Contempt of Courts Act, 1976, and the High Courts have power to punish persons for
the commission of these acts. Section 480 of the Code of Criminal Procedure deals
with certain offences under sections 175, 178, 179, 180 and 228 of the Pakistan
Penal Code which are in the nature of contempt of Court’ when such offences are
committed in the view and presence of the Court. The Court has the power to try
such offences itself, but the punishment is limited to fine up to two hundred rupees or
simple imprisonment in default of payment up to one month. The procedure laid
down in section 480 of the Code should be very carefully followed. If the Court
considers that the offender should receive a higher penalty, it has discretion to send
the case to another Magistrate (vide section 482 Cr. P. C.). An appeal lies in every
case of conviction for contempt to the Court to which appeals from the decrees or
orders of the convicting Court ordinarily lie. In the case of a conviction by a Court of
Small Causes, an appeal lies to the Sessions Court.]

2. Cases tried by Magisterial Court should be sent to Sessions
Judge for examination.--Every case, in which a person is punished summarily for
contempt of court by an officer exercising less that full magisterial powers should be sent, on
the completion of the proceedings in which the contempt occurred, to the *[Sessions Judge]
for inspection.*[Sessions Judges] should carefully consider the cases thus submitted to them,
and make such comments thereon as appear called for or if necessary, report the case for the
consideration of the High Court on the revision side.

3. Contempt by ignorant people.-- it must be distinctly understood
that it is not intended to lay down that the power given to Courts by the Code of
Criminal Procedure to punish contempts summarily is never to e resorted to. It is the
duty of every Court to maintain the order and dignity of its proceedings, and
sometimes this can only be effected by the punishment of the offender. In this
connection, however, it is pointed out that a distinction may well be drawn between a
disrespect committed by an ignorant villager, who hardly understands


--- Page 322 ---
50
the impropriety of his conduct and disrespectful behaviour on the part of a person
higher up in the scale of society. In the case of an ignorant rustic, a Court may often
be content to pass over without punishment an act which would properly call for
punishment if committed by a person of higher education and fuller knowledge of
what is due to the dignity of a Court of Justice.

*[4. When High Court may punish for the contempt of subordinate
Court.-- Besides the power to punish its own contempt under Article 204 of the
Constitution and under the Contempt of Courts Act, 1976, the High Court has and
may exercise the same jurisdiction, powers and authority in accordance with the
same procedure and practice, in respect of complaints of contempt of the Courts
subordinate to it as it has in respect of a contempt of itself, but it cannot take
cognizance of a contempt in respect of a Court subordinate to it when such contempt
is an offence punishable under the Pakistan Penal Code (see section 3 of the
Contempt of Courts Act, 1976).

The subordinate courts must, therefore, ensure before referring a contempt
matter to the High Court that the alleged contempt is not an offence punishable under
the Pakistan Penal Code.]


--- Page 323 ---
51
CHAPTER 9
WITNESSES --CRIMINAL COURTS.
PART A — EXPENSES. ***[Omitted]


--- Page 324 ---
52
PART B-- INSTRUCTIONS FOR THE GUIDANCE OF THE
NAZARAT AND PRESIDING OFFICERS IN ORDER TO
CHECK FRAUD AND EMBEZZLEMENT WITH RESPECT TO

THE DISTRIBUTION OF DIET AND ROAD MONEY OF WITNESSES.

Instructions for prevention of frauds, etc.,in expenses of diet money and
road money.-- The following instructions have been issued by the Punjab
Government for the guidance of the Nazarat Officers and the Presiding Officers of
the Courts with a view to the prevention of frauds and embezzlements in the
expenses of diet and road money of witness;-

(1) Specimen signatures to be kept.-- The Nazarat Officers should be
provided with specimen signatures of all Presiding Officers for whose courts he has
at any time to pay bills for diet money of witnesses. etc.

2) Comparison of specimen signatures. The Nazarat officer will be
expected to satisfy himself that the signatures on the bills placed before him conform to the
specimen signatures received by him. Should any loss be occasioned by the neglect of this
rule.

3) Responsibility of Nazir or Naib Qasid not to make payments.- At
the same time the Nazir should be informed that he is responsible for all money transaction
entrusted to his charge, and that if the Naib-Nazir or any other of his assistants is utilised for
disbursement work, the Nazir will remain responsible for supervising them and their work. On
no account should a Naib Qasid or a menial be employed for the payment of any Government
moneys.

4) Criminal Register XVIII, Part B.-IV, Vol.VI-B.-- Criminal Register XVII
appearing in Part B--IV of rules and Orders, Volume VI--B, showing the amount of diet and
road money of witnesses for which memoranda have been issued should be maintained in
each Magistrate's court and comparison should be regularly, though not necessarily daily,
made with the Nazara Register by the Presiding Officer, who should initial in the column
provided for the purpose in token of his having made the comparison.

Outlying Courts.

This register should also be maintained in the courts of Sessions Judges who should
compare it with the register of contingent expenditure at least once a week and put their
initials in column 10 in token of their having done so. The diet money and travelling expense
of witnesses examined before a Court of Session should be paid in the presence of the
SessionsJudge.


--- Page 325 ---
53
The following instructions are laid down in regard to checking of entries in the register
maintained by outlying courts;-
(a) When the outlying court (or if there is more than one court, the Naib-nazir
appointed at the place) holds an advance from the district nazir.
In case there is only one Court, no comparison of the entries in the register of road
and diet money paid to witnesses is necessary. If there are several courts, it is
presumed that the payments are made by the Naib-Nazir under the supervision of
one presiding officer as is the case at district headquarters. In that case the entries in
the register of road and diet money paid to witnesses should be compared with those
in the contingent register maintained by the naib-nazir. No further comparison with
the district nazir contingent register is necessary.
(b) When the outlying court holds no advance.
The payments are made by district nazir on receipt of the written orders of payment
direct from such outlying courts. In such cases, a comparison with the entries in the
contingent register of the district nazir is necessary and may be effected by the issue
of fortnightly memoranda by the outlying courts to the nazarat officer.
(5) Security from officials.--Steps should be taken to see that security is
actually taken in all cases where the rules lay down that an official should furnish it.
(6) Nazirs should not keep money deposits.--The Nazir should not be allowed
to keep in his possession any sum received by him in the form of a deposit, but such
money should be deposited in the Treasury without delay.

Inspection by Deputy Commissioners. It is hoped that Deputy
Commissioners will make occasional inspections of the Nazir's accounts and satisfy
themselves that these and other instructions relating to the Nazarat are being
properly observed.


--- Page 326 ---
54
PART C-- COMMISSIONS. ***[Omitted].


--- Page 327 ---
55
PART D-- EXPERT WITNESSES.

1. Evidence of expert witnesses and instructions re the same.--
Much inconvenience is caused to expert witnesses by the reckless manner in which
they are often summoned to give evidence by courts. The following instructions
should be borne in mind by presiding officers of courts with regard to this class of
witness;-

(a) Care should be taken that when an expert is summoned, his evidence
is duly taken and, where possible, completed on the day of his appearance.

(b) Where possible, the expert should be previously consulted in regard to
the suitability of the date which it is proposed to fix for his evidence.

(c) Courts should always consider the desirability of avoiding causing
inconvenience to experts by taking their evidence on commission in cases where the
evidence is such as can suitably be so taken.

2. Evidence of the Chief Inspector of Explosives-- The Chief
Inspector of Explosives to the Federal Government has drawn attention to the fact
that the number of summonses he receives for personal appearance before the
courts all over the Pakistan interferes with his legitimate duties and he has suggested
that it would be of very great assistance if the issue of summonses on him and his
inspectors for appearance in Magistrates’ Courts could be restricted to the minimum
consistent with the requirements of a case. In bringing this to the notice of Provincial
Governments, the Central Government have observed that where it is necessary to
have the evidence of the Chief Inspector or his subordinates taken in Magistrates’
Court which are at a great distance from their headquarters and the cases are such
as would normally be committed to the Courts of Session, a great deal of
inconvenience may be avoided by having resort to section 503 or section 506,
Criminal Procedure Code as the case may be. The Provincial Gopvernment of the
Punjab have accordingly directed that prosecuting officers should press for taking
evidence on commission in suitable cases. This should be borne in mind by Criminal
Courts.

3. Evidence of Chemical Examiner or his Assistant.- Courts are
warned to be careful to see before summoning the Chemical Examiner or his


--- Page 328 ---
56
Assistant that the evidence of another medical witness whose services are more
conveniently procurable will not be sufficient.

4. Fire-arms experts.- When an application is made for the
summoning of a fire-arms expert in a case, the Magistrate should first ascertain from
the party-wishing to call him as a witness on what points his evidence is required,
and then write a letter to the expert asking him if he is able to give evidence on those
points, and whether he wishes to examine any exhibits before giving an opinion. After
these preliminaries, if the reply of the expert shows that he is in a position to give
relevant evidence, then and not till then, summons should be issued to him to appear
as a witness subject to the instructions given in preceding paragraphs.

5. When it is considered necessary to summon the Government
Inspector of Railways as an expert witness, reasonable notice should be given to him
since the Government Inspector of Railways is charged with the responsibility of
carrying out inspections and holding inquiries into serious accidents on the Railways:
as far as possible a notice of one month or more should be given and in case a
shorter notice is considered necessary, the same should not be of less than three
weeks' duration. in order to obvitate delay in arranging his attendance in the courts
summons should be served on the Government Inspector of Railways direct, at his
official address viz. Headquarters Office, Pakistan Railway, Lahore.

6. Ballistics Expert.- While giving evidence in Court as Ballistics
Expert, the Director, *[Forensic Science Laboratory Punjab], shall give reasons for
his conclusions and appears as a witness before the committing Magistrate
concerned with all the photographs taken and all the cartidges fired by himself for the
purpose of arriving at such conclusions.

The copy or copies of photographs produced by the Ballistics expert, and
placed on the record may be inspected by the defence counsel concerned.


--- Page 329 ---
57
CHAPTER 10
Bail and Recognizance

1. Principles governing grant of bail.-- It must be understood that for

every bailable offence bail is a right, not a favour. In demanding bail from an accused
person, Magistrates should bear in mind the social status of the accused and fix the
amount of bail accordingly, care being taken that the amount so fixed is not
excessive. The amount of bail and the offence charged, with the section under which
it is punishable, should always be stated on the face of an order directing the
accused to be detained in the lock-up in default of his furnishing bail. Bail may be
tendered and must be accepted at any time before conviction.
Bail may also be tendered and accepted even after conviction in accordance with the
provisions of sub-section (2-A) of Section 426 of the Code of Criminal Procedure,
when a person sentenced to imprisonment for a bailable offence satisfies the court
that he intends to file an appeal.

2. Recognizance.-- When any person other than a person accused of a
non-bailable offence is brought before a Criminal Court, the Court may, if it thinks fit,
instead of taking bail discharge him on his executing a bond without sureties for his
appearance (section 496, Criminal Procedure Code).

3. Bail in non-bailable cases.-- Even in the case of non-bailable
offences there are circumstances under which the accused may be admitted to bail.
These are described in section 497 of the Code.

4. Cash or Government promissory notes may be accepted in lieu
of bail.-- Under section 513 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, a deposit of cash or
Government promissory notes may be made in lieu of bail, except in the case of a
bond for good behaviour.

‘Is. Bail to be granted promptly.-- It is unlawful to detain parties under
trial in prison a minute longer than the law requires; if innocent, they are exposed to
the indignity of imprisonment, for which no subsequent order of discharge or acquittal
can atone.]

6. Release on bail by superior Courts.-- Under Section 498 of the
Code, the Sessions Judge may, whether there be an appeal on conviction or not,


--- Page 330 ---
58
direct that any accused person be admitted to bail, or that the bail required by a
police officer or Magistrate be reduced. “[...] It should also be remembered that,
under section 426 of the Code of Criminal Procedure an Appellate Court may, for
reasons to be recorded in writing , order that the convicted person be released on
bail or on his own bond.

7. Bail applications on holidays. Sessions Judges should allow
urgent applications for bail to be presented to them at their residence on holidays at a
fixed hour, when such applications cannot be presented in Court on a working day
owing to unavoidable circumstances.

8. Disposal of bail applications in the absence of Sessions Judge.--
When Sessions Judges are unavoidably absent from the station, they should take
action under section 17(4) ‘[of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1898] for the hearing
of urgent bail applications.

9. Inquiry about sufficiency of bonds.-- Considerable diversity of
practice exists in carrying out the provisions of the law in regard to the taking of
bonds from accused persons and their sureties, and the result of the diversity is not
only to cause Police officers to be employed in needless inquiries, but also to keep
the accused person in custody pending the result of the inquiry into the sufficiency or
otherwise of the bail offered. The attention of the criminal authorities, is, therefore,
directed to section 499 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, which requires the
Magistrate simply to take a bond for such a sum of money as he may think sufficient,
from the accused and one or more sureties. At the same time, however, it is the duty
of Magistrates to satisfy themselves that the sureties are, in point of substance,
persons of whom it may reasonably be presumed that they can, if necessary , satisfy
the terms of the bail-bond.

10. Forfeiture of bail bonds.-- Section 514 of the Code lays down the
procedure to be adopted to compel payment of the penalty mentioned in the bond
from the person executing the personal recognizance and from his sureties.

1. Form of bond for appearance before High Court.-- When a person
is enlarged on bail by order of the High Court, or when bail is to be taken for his
appearance before the High Court, the bonds to be executed by such person and his
sureties shall be in the following forms which have been


--- Page 331 ---
59
prescribed by the High Court with the sanction of the Provincial Government under
powers conferred by section 544 (2) of the Code of Criminal Procedure:-
FORM OF BOND AND BAIL BOND
I, son of Caste
appealed resident of having to the Lahore
High
petitioned Court, Lahore and being required to give security for my attendance before
the Lahore High Court, Lahore or for my surrender before the Court of the District
Magistrate of if required, do bind myself to attend at the Lahore
High Court, Lahore on every day of the hearing of my appeal/petition by the Lahore
High Court, Lahore and on such other day or days as | may be ordered to attend, or,
to appear and surrender myself before the District Magistrate of and in
case of making default therein, | bind myself to forfeit to the [Governor of Punjab] the
sum of rupees, .
Dated this day of 19.
SURETY BOND
WHEREAS son of caste
resident of having appealed/petitioned to the Lahore High Court, Lahore
is being required to give security for his attendance before the Lahore High Court,
Lahore or for his surrender before the Court of the District Magistrate of
if required, |, son of resident of
do bind myself to produce at the Lahore High Court, Lahore on every
day of hearing of his appeal ----------------by the Lahore High Court, Lahore and on
such other day or days as | may petition be ordered to produce him, or to produce
and surrender him before the District Magistrate of and in the case of
my making default therein, | bind myself to forfeit to the [Governor of Punjab] the
sum of rupees, .
Dated this day of 19.
12. Date of hearing to be communicated to the accused and
sureties. In cases punishable with death or ‘[imprisonment] for life the


--- Page 332 ---
60
District Magistrate on accepting the sureties shall inform them that the person
released on bail must be present at the hearing in the High Court. He shall also
inform the person released on bail to the same effect.

In other cases the person released on bail shall be produced before the
District Magistrate by the sureties and/or shall surrender himself before the District
Magistrate if and when required. The sureties and the person released on bail shall
be informed by the District Magistrate accordingly.

13. Discretion of High Court.-- On the date of hearing in the High Court,
the Judge or Judges hearing the appeal may order that-

(a) the bail-bond should be cancelled at once, and the man re-arrested, or

(b) he should appear on a certain day to hear judgment pronounced, or

(c) he should attend daily (excluding holidays) until judgment is pronounced, or
(d) he should be discharged from his bail-bond.

(e) he should appear and surrender himself before the District Magistrate, or

14. Re-arrest on cancellation of bond.-- If the person who has been
released on bail is not arrested on the day of hearing, in accordance with ‘[the
immediately preceding paragraph], he will ordinarily be re-arrested in the High Court
immediately [after the] judgment has been pronounced against him.

Note 1:- The foregoing instructions will apply mutatis mutandis to the case of
persons enlarged on bail by a Court of Session.

Note 2:- Except in very special cases, the Judges of the High Court decline to
entertain applications for bail unless the Sessions Judge or the Court trying the case
has already been applied to and has rejected applications. Sessions Judge should
conform to this practice.

15. Bail application to be treated as urgent.-- All applications for bail in
criminal cases including appeals [shall be] treated as urgent.


--- Page 333 ---
61
CHAPTER 11
PART A -- INVESTIGATION

Relation between Police and Magistrate.-- Chapter XIV of the Code of
Criminal Procedure contains the provisions of the law regarding information to the
Police and their powers to investigate; and the relations of the Police to the
Magistrate are therein defined.

‘[2. Police can investigate suo motu only cognizable cases.- The
Police have power to investigate suo motu only cognizable offences as defined in
section 4(f) of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1898; but under section 202 of the
code, a Court may, for the purpose of ascertaining the truth or falsehood of a
complaint of an offence of which it is authorised to take cognizance, direct an inquiry
or investigation to be made by a Police Officer or by such other person as it thinks fit.
The limitations on this power of reference which are described in the instructions as
to the examination of complainants should be strictly observed by Magistrates (vide
chapter 1-B, paragraph 4).]

3. Police to record information in non-cognizable cases also.--
Section 154 requires that every information to an officer-in-charge of a Police Station
relating to the commission of a cognizable offence shall be reduced to writing, and
action taken on it under sections 156 and 157. When the information relates to the
commission of a non-cognizable offence, the substance of it shall be entered in a
book to be kept for the purpose, and the informant shall be referred to the Magistrate.
No police officer may, without the express order of a duly empowered Magistrate,
investigate an offence not cognizable by Police [section 155 (2)].

4. Procedure of Police on receipt of information.-- Sections 156 to
158 lay down the procedure to be followed by the Police on receipt of information
relating to the commission of a cognizable offence, and provide for the submission of
reports of such information to the Magistrate having jurisdiction.

‘[Daily Station Diary. Action to be taken when Station Police Officer
decides not to investigate case.- Rule 22.48 of Chapter XXII of Volume III, of the
Punjab Police Rules, 1934 prescribes the maintenance of a Daily Station


--- Page 334 ---
62

Diary in accordance with section 44 of the Police Act, 1861, and lays down that the
Daily Station Diary shall be in form 22.48(1) and shall be maintained by means of the
carbon copying process. There shall be two copies. One will remain in the Police
Station register and the other shall be despatched to the Superintendent of Police or
a gazetted officer designated by the former every day at the hour fixed in this behalf.
The Superintendent of Police shall fix the hours at which station diaries shall be daily
closed.]

Rules 24.4. (1) & (2) of Chapter XXIV of the Punjab Police Rules Volume III,
run as follows:-

[Q))] If the information or other intelligence relating to the alleged
commission of a cognizable offence is such that an officer in charge of a Police
Station has reason to suspect that the alleged offence has not been committed, he
shall enter the substance of the information or intelligence in the station diary and
shall record his reasons for suspecting that the alleged offence has not been
committed and shall also notify to the informant , if any, the fact that he will not
investigate the case or cause it to be investigated.

2) If the Inspector or other superior officer, on receipt of a copy of the
station diary, is of opinion that the case should be investigated, he shall pass an
order to that effect and shall, in any case, send on the diary or an extract therefrom to
the District Magistrate for his perusal and orders.

‘Is. Distinction between recording of reports under sections 154 and
157, of the Code of Criminal Procedure.- (i) Whereas every information covered by
section 154 of the Code must be reduced to writing as provided in that section, it is
only information which raises a reasonable suspicion of the commission of a
cognizable offence within the jurisdiction of the Police Officer to whom it is given,
which compels action under section 157 of the Code, although, of course, a report
would be sent to the Magistrate.

(ii) A Magistrate cannot refuse to take cognizance of a complaint which
has been duly made to him, on the ground that it relates to an offence cognizable by
the Police, and should, therefore, have been made to the Police and not to himself.
Failure to so take cognizance amounts to failure to exercise jurisdiction legally
vesting in the Magistrate.


--- Page 335 ---
63

(iii) A Magistrate who has taken cognizance under section 190(1)(a) of
the Code, of an offence cognizable by the Police may, after complying with the
provisions of section 200 of the Code, and issuing his process (if he sees no reason
for doubting the truth of the complaint and otherwise finds sufficient grounds for
proceeding), give information of the case to the Police Officer having jurisdiction, with
a view to his further investigating its facts and circumstances in the manner laid down
in section 157 of the Code. In such a case, as is contemplated, the Police Officer
would not have to take measures for the discovery and arrest of the offender, as the
supposed offender would be known, and a process would have been issued by the
Magistrate to compel his appearance; but in other respects it would rest with him to
take steps to secure the case being properly brought before the Court, and he would
be responsible that the witnesses named by the complainant to the Magistrate were
supplemented by any others who might be necessary to complete the case for the
prosecution.]

6. Procedure to be adopted by Magistrate when offender is not
known to the complainant.-- The [remarks contained in the preceding paragraph]
proceed on the assumption that the complainant to the Magistrate knows, or thinks
he knows, who has injured him. In cases of complaint of a cognizable offence against
an unknown offender, the Magistrate would have to record, under section 203, that
there were in his judgment no sufficient grounds for proceedings. It would also be
open to him to communicate to the police the information supplied to him, or to leave
it to the complainant either to apply to the Police or to take such other measures as
he thought proper for discovering the offender.

7. Procedure of Police when there is or is not sufficient evidence
against the accused.-- Section 169 of the Code of Criminal Procedure provides that
if in an investigation under Chapter XIV the Police officer finds that there is not
sufficient evidence to justify the forwarding of the accused to a Magistrate, he shall
release the accused on bail or recognizance, and shall submit a report through the
proper officer (section 173), for the orders of the Magistrate having jurisdiction.


--- Page 336 ---
64

If, on the other hand, the evidence appears sufficient the Police officer must
forward the accused under custody, or on bail, if the offence is bailable, to the
Magistrate having jurisdiction (section 170).

8. Police cannot detain in custody an accused for more than 24
hours without orders of Magistrate.-- Section 61 of the Code provides that no
Police officer shall, under any circumstances, in the absence of a special order of a
Magistrate under section 167, detain in custody a person arrested without warrant for
a longer period than twenty-four hours, exclusive of the time necessary for the
journey from the place of arrest to the Court.

9. Police remands.-- When it appears that the investigation by the
Police cannot be completed within the period of twenty-four hours and there are
grounds for believing that the accusation is well founded, the Police Officer must
forward the accused to the nearest Magistrate, and also transmit a copy of the
entries relating to the case in the diary of the Police Station. The Magistrate before
whom the accused is brought may, whether he has or has not jurisdiction, authorise
the detention of the accused in such custody as he thinks fit for a period not
exceeding fifteen days. If he has not jurisdiction in the case, and considers such
further detention unnecessary, he may order the accused to be forwarded to a
Magistrate having jurisdiction. “[(Section 167 of the Code).]

‘[10. Procedure of Magistrate granting remand.- A Magistrate
authorizing the detention of an accused person as above must record his reasons for
doing so; and shall forward a copy of his order with his reasons for making it, to the
Sessions Judge. (Section 167, sub-section (4) of the Code.)]

1. Arrest by Police to be reported. When Police may discharge
persons once arrested.-- Sections 62 and 63 require that Police officers shall report
to the Magistrate of the district or, if he so directs to the Magistrate of the sub-division
of a district, the cases of all persons apprehended without a warrant within the limits
of their respective stations, whether such persons “[...] have been admitted to bail or
otherwise, and that no person who has been apprehended shall be discharged
except [on his own bond, or on bail] or under the special order of Magistrate.

12. Control of Magistrate over arrests by the Police.-- The object of
these sections is that the Magistrate should promptly exercise authority, if


--- Page 337 ---
65
necessary, with regard to all arrests by the Police; and they seem to have been
framed with this view that as no person can be released without the order of a
Magistrate, except on bail or recognizance, the Magistrate “[and the Police should be
responsible if a person is illegally arrested or] remains unnecessarily in custody.

13. Police diary to be kept and sent up regularly.-- Section 172
requires that a Police Officer making an investigation under Chapter XIV shall record
his proceedings day by day in a diary. The Magistrate of the district should see that
the diary is regularly kept up and that each day's diary has been forwarded to and
has regularly reached the Superintendent of Police of the district in course of post,
this being the only security against the contents being antedated. “[...]

14. Duty Magistrates to supervise Police Investigations.-- Magistrates
are bound to see that the provisions of the Code are attended to , any departmental
practice notwithstanding. The law has provided that the Magistrate should either
expressly order (section 202), or receive immediate intimation of (section 157) [the]
criminal investigation that is set on foot in the district, and he is not at liberty to relax
the supervision which the law intends that he should exercise.

15. Magistrate must have among his own records the means to
supply statistical information.-- From the quarterly statistical returns it sometimes
transpires that the Magistrate is not informed of the number of persons arrested by
the Police during the month. If the points above alluded to are properly attended to,
the Magistrate must have among his own records the means to supply the statistical
information; for the reports severally made to him of intimation of the occurrence of
an offence (section 157), of there being no sufficient evidence (section 169), of there
being sufficient evidence (section 170), must be in writing, and, whatever may be the
mode of communication with the Police, must leave a trace in the Magistrate's office
sufficient to enable the statistical writer to make out his returns.

16. Police to send to the Magistrate copies of records made under
section 165, Cr.P.C.-- Magistrates of districts should also insist on the Police
authorities adhering closely to the law laid down in sections 161 to 163 and 165


--- Page 338 ---
66

of the Code of Criminal Procedure. They should see that the Police forthwith sends to
the nearest Magistrate, empowered to take cognizance of the offences, copies of any
record made under sub-section 165 of the Criminal Procedure Code at the time of
making search.

17. Power of Police to summon witnesses and to arrest offenders.--
The issuing of a warrant or summons, properly so called, in criminal cases, is the
prerogative of the Magistrate only and no writ from a Police Officer, as such is to bear
either of these designation; but, under section 160, any Police officer making an
investigation under Chapter XIV may by ‘order in writing’ require the attendance of
any person who appears to be acquainted with the circumstances of the case, and
such person shall be bound to attend. The arrest of an accused may also be effected
by a Police Officer of any rank to whom an order in writing has been issued by the
officer-in-charge of the police station; but such processes are never, either officially
or in common parlance, to be called ‘warrants’ or “summons'.


--- Page 339 ---
67
PART B -- REMANDS TO POLICE CUSTODY

1. Introductory.-- The following instructions on the subject of remands
to Police custody have been issued by the High Court.

2. Distinction between remand to Police custody and remand to
judicial lock-up.-- Magistrates should observe the great distinction between a
remand to Police custody and an ordinary remand to the Magistrate's lock-up under
section 344 on the adjournment of an inquiry or trial owing to the absence of a
witness or from any other reasonable cause.

3. Non-completion of Police investigation does not justify detention
by Police.-- The non-completion of the enquiry or trial justifies the latter, but the
former requires some thing more, as it is expressly provided by section 167 that the
non-completion of the investigation shall not, in the absence of a special order of a
Magistrate, be deemed to be a sufficient [cause] for the detention of an accused
person by the Police.

4. Remand to be granted in cases of real necessity.-- Ordinarily,
when an investigation is incomplete, the proper course is for the accused person to
be sent up promptly with such evidence as has been obtained and for the trial to be
commenced at once by the Magistrate and proceeded with, as far as possible, and
then adjourned for further evidence. “[...] A remand to Police custody ought only to
be granted in cases of real necessity and when it is shown in the application that
there is good reason to believe that the accused can point out property or otherwise
assist the Police in elucidating the case.

5. Magistrate should discourage tendency of Police to take remand
to extort confession.-- The Police are too often desirous of retaining the accused in
their custody for the longer period than twenty-four hours merely in the hope of
extracting some admission of guilt from him. This is contrary to section 163 and the
following section of the Code of Criminal Procedure, and to the spirit of the Code
generally; and Magistrates must be careful not to facilitate this object by too great a
readiness in granting remands.

6. Remand cannot be granted for more than 15 days. Procedure
when accused is brought before a Magistrate to obtain remand.-- Remands to
Police custody cannot be granted under the Code of Criminal Procedure, for


--- Page 340 ---
68
a longer period than 15 days altogether, and cannot be granted at all by a Magistrate
of the third class, or by a Magistrate of the second class not specially empowered by
the Provincial Government. When an accused is brought before a Magistrate in
accordance with section 167, Sub-section (1) of the Code of Criminal Procedure,
1898, the Magistrate must adopt one of the following courses:-

[Q))] If he has jurisdiction to try the case or [send] it for trial, either:-

(a) discharge the accused at once, on the ground that there is no cause
shown for further detention, or

‘[(b) remand him to Police custody (if empowered to do so) or to
magisterial custody as he may think fit, for a term not exceeding 15 days, which term
if less than 15 days, may subsequently be extended upto the limit of 15 days in all
and shall forward a copy of his order with his reasons for making it, to the Sessions
Judge; or

(c) proceed at once to try the accused himself or send him for trial, or]

(d) if for any reason it sems necessary, forward the accused at once to
the “[Sessions Judge or] District or Sub-Divisional Magistrate to whom he is
subordinate, or

(e) if himself a District or Sub-Divisional Magistrate, send the accused to
a competent subordinate Magistrate for trial or sending up.

2) If he has not jurisdiction to try the accused or [send] him for trial, he
must either:-

(a) if he thinks there is no ground for further detention, at once send the
accused to a Magistrate having jurisdiction, with a view to his trial or discharge, or

(b) if he thinks there is ground for further detention, remand him to police
custody (if empowered to do so) or to magisterial custody as he may think fit, for a
term not exceeding 15 days, which term, if less than 15 days, may subsequently be
extended up to the limit of 15 days in all, “[and forward a copy of his order with his
reasons for making it, to the Sessions Judge.]

Note: [Omitted]

7. Accused must be produced before the Magistrate who should
satisfy himself about necessity for remand.-- Before making an order of


--- Page 341 ---
69
remand to Police custody under section 167 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, the
Magistrate should satisfy himself that

[Q))] there are grounds for believing that the accusation against the person

sent up by the Police is well founded;

2) there are good and sufficient reasons for remanding the accused to

Police custody instead of detaining him in magisterial custody.

In order to form an opinion as to the necessity or otherwise of the remand
applied for by the Police, the Magistrate should examine the copies of the diaries
submitted under section 167 and ascertain what previous orders (if any) have been
made in the case, and the longer the accused person has been in custody the
stronger should be the grounds required for a further remand to police custody.

The accused person must always be produced before the Magistrate when a remand
is asked for.

8. Principle applying remand cases.-- The following principles are laid
down for the guidance of Magistrates in the matter of granting remands, and District
Magistrates are required to see that they are carefully applied:-

(i) Under no circumstances should an accused person be remanded to Police
custody unless it is made clear that his presence is actually needed in order to serve some
important and specific purpose connected with the completion of the inquiry. A general
statement by the officer applying for the remand that the accused may be able to give further
information should not be accepted.

(ii) When an accused person is remanded to Police custody the period of the
remand should be as short as possible.

(iii) In all ordinary cases in which time is required by the Police to complete the
inquiry, the accused person should be detained in magisterial custody.

(iv) Where the object of the remand is merely the verification of the prisoner's
statement, he should be remanded to magisterial custody.

(v) An accused person who has made a confession before a Magistrate should
be sent to the Judicial lock-up and not made over to the Police after the confession has been
recorded. If the Police subsequently require the accused person for the investigation, a written
application should be made giving reasons in detail why he is required and an order obtained
from the Magistrate for his delivery to them for the specific purposes


--- Page 342 ---
70
named in the application. If an accused person, who has been produced for the
purpose of making a confession, has declined to make a confession or has made a
statement which is unsatisfactory from the point of view of the prosecution he should
not be remanded to Police custody.

To. Reasons for grant of remand to be recorded and copy sent to
Sessions Judge.-- The Magistrate giving remand to Police custody shall record his
reasons for so doing and forward copy of his order to the Sessions Judge or the
District Magistrate as the case may be. (See section 167(3) & (4) Cr.P.C.]

10. Procedure when a remand for more than 15 days is required for
completion of the case.-- If the limit of 15 days has elapsed, and there is still need
for further investigation by the Police, the procedure to be adopted is that laid down
in section 344, Criminal Procedure Code. The case is brought on to the Magistrate's
file and the accused, if detention is necessary, will remain in magisterial custody. The
case may be postponed or adjourned from time to time for periods of not more than
15 days each, and as each adjournment expires the accused must be produced
before the Magistrate, and the order of adjournment must show good reasons for
making the order.

‘[11. Strict supervision to be exercised over the action of Magistrates
granting remands.-- The Sessions Judges and the District Magistrates as the case
may be should take measures to exercise strict supervision over the action of all
Magistrates subordinate to them, in regard to the granting of remand under section
167 of the Code of Criminal Procedure and as they receive the reports made under
subsection (4) thereof, they possess the means for exercising the supervision here
required of them without any difficulty.]

12. (i) Instructions issued by the Provincial Government in respect to
remands.-- “[...] (a) Before a remand is granted in any case, the Magistrate should inform the
accused that he is a Magistrate and that a remand has been applied for, and he should ask the accused
whether he has any objection to offer to the remand. The order granting the remand should be written at
the time itis announced, in the presence of the accused.

(b) If the accused wishes to be represented by counsel, the Magistrate
should allow time for counsel to appear and argue the matter before him. He


--- Page 343 ---
71
may grant a temporary remand in such circumstances until arguments have been
heard.

(ii) Right of accused to access to counsel and friends.- “[..] An
accused person should not be removed to a place which is either inaccessible or
unknown to his friends or counsel. Information regarding his place of confinement
should at all times be given to his friends on their application, and the prisoner
himself should be informed that he is entitled to have the assistance of counsel and
to communicate with his relations and friends. “[(See Punjab Government circular
letter No. 6091-J-36/39829 (H-Judl) dated the 19th December, 1936).]


--- Page 344 ---
72
PART C -- IDENTIFICATION PARADES

Instructions issued by the Punjab Government regarding identification
parades.-- The following instructions have been issued by the Punjab Government
for the guidance of Magistrates in their conduct of identification parades (Punjab
Government circular letter No. 6091-J-36/39829 (H-Judl.), dated the 19th December,
1936, to all District Magistrates in the Punjab):-

(1) List of all persons included in the parade should be prepared.-- The
Magistrate in charge of an identification parade should prepare a list of all persons,
including the accused, who form part of the parade. This list should contain the
parentage, address and occupation of each member of the parade.

(2) Note about identification by witnesses.-- When any witness identifies a
member of the parade, the Magistrate should note in what connection he is identified.
A note should also be made if the witness identifies a person wrongly; in such a case
it is incorrect to note that the witness identified nobody. All persons identified must be
mentioned, whether the identification is right or wrong. If a witness, on being called
for the purpose, states that he cannot make any identification, a note should be
recorded by the Magistrate to this effect.

(3) Objection or statements by accused or identification witnesses to be
recorded and power of Magistrate to decide objections.-- Should the accused
make any complaint or statement it should be recorded by the Magistrate. If from his
personal knowledge the Magistrate is able to decide beyond doubt that the complaint
is false or futile, a note to this effect should be made, but in other cases it is
advisable to leave any decision as to the value to be attached to the objection to the
court trying the case. The Magistrate should also record any statement made by a
witness before making an identification.

(4) Duty of Magistrate to record precautions taken and to note other
points.-- The Magistrate should state-

(a) what precautions he has taken to ensure-


--- Page 345 ---
73

(i) that the witnesses do not see the person to be identified by them
before the identification proceedings commence;

(ii) that no communication which would facilitate identification is made to
any witness who is awaiting his turn to identify; and

(iii) that after making identification the witnesses do not communicate
with other witnesses who have yet to do so;

(b) whether the person to be identified is handcuffed or is wearing fetters;
and if so, whether or not other persons taking part in the parade are handcuffed or
are wearing fetters, and also whether or not they are inmates of the Jail.

(5) Form of certificate to be appended by the Magistrate.- At the end the
Magistrate should append a certificate in the following form:-

IDENTIFICATION PARADE

The State Versus (F.I.R. No. of 19 Police Station -----------)

Parade held on the---------------—---19 in the-------—-—-—-—-jail by-------mmmmummn
Magistrate---------------Class------------—-—district for the identification of-----------------on
the application Of----------nenenemeve,
Names of the witness who are expected to identify the prisoner, with their
particulars:-
1.
2.
3.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE MAGISTRATE

Certified that the above is a true and correct record of my proceedings.
(Seal) Sd/- (Magistrate) Class.

2. The following further instructions have been issued by the Punjab
Government on the subject(Punjab Government circular letter No. 6546-J-43/83844
(H-Judl.) dated the 17th December 1943, to all District Magistrates in the Punjab:-


--- Page 346 ---
74

In cases where the identification of the accused is disputed and is a matter of
importance, the request of an accused for an identification parade should not be
refused. Such a request should not also be rejected merely because it is regarded as
measure to create delay, as it should be possible to arrange an identification parade
without delay. Again, a request to hold such a parade should not be refused on the
ground that it is some considerable time since the witnesses last saw the accused
and the accused may have changed in appearance in the meantime, and in such
cases in his report on the parade the Magistrate can record when the witnesses did
see the accused last.

3. A case has been brought to the notice of Government in which the
Magistrate holding an identification parade allowed the accused and other members
of the parade to be so dressed and "made up" with dark glasses, patches of paper,
etc., that it was well nigh impossible for the witnesses to identify the accused. As an
identification parade is a test of the identifying witness's ability to recognise the culprit
by what he appeared to be at the time of the commission of the offence, it is fair both
to the prosecution and the accused that the members of the parade should be
presented in a normal state and, if possible, the dress of the parade should have
resemblance to the accused as he appeared to the witness at the time of the
commission of the offence. It should, therefore, be impressed upon the Magistrates in
all districts to ensure, while conducting identification parades, that the members of
the parade including the accused are not allowed "make up", are presented in a
normal state and if possible the parade be dressed as the accused was reported to
be by the witness at the time of the commission of the offence.


--- Page 347 ---
75
PART D -- CANCELLATION OF CASES REPORTED BY POLICE

1. Magistrate's power to cancel cases reported by Police.--In regard
to cognizable cases reported by the Police to the Magistrate having jurisdiction under
section 157 and 173 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, it frequently becomes
evident either (a) that the offence committed was really non-cognizable, or (b) that
the information given to the Police was false or unfounded, and the Police apply for
magisterial authority to show such cases as "non-cognizable" or "false" as the case
may be. The Magistrate dealing with the Police reports in such cases, that is,
ordinarily, the Magistrate who is empowered to take cognizance of the offence upon
Police report, in respect of the particular Police Station, under section 159 or section
173 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, as the case may be, may, for sufficient
reasons, pass an order accordingly.

‘[2. Duty of Magistrate to satisfy himself before passing order.- When
a Magistrate agrees with a Police report that the F.I.R./case should be cancelled, he
acts in an administrative and not in a judicial capacity and the order he makes is not
a judicial order. Such an order is not a revisable order and, therefore, the Magistrate
is not required to give reasons for his order.

Though, Magistrates should exercise this discretion freely in making such
order after satisfying themselves as to the grounds on which it is sought to be made,
yet they should not treat the matter as one of ordinary routine. (See Rule 24.7 of the
Punjab Police Rules, 1934 framed under section 46 of the Police Act, 1861 and
Bahedu vs. The State PLD 1985 S.C. 62).]

3. Magistrate dealing with the final Police report is competent to
pass order.--In the event of the first and final report not coming before the same
officer, the Magistrate dealing with the final Police report would be competent to pass
the order.

4. Order of cancellation when to be passed and by whom.--No
Magistrate of the 2nd or 3rd class is competent to make such an order, but any
Magistrate of the Ist class may do so. Such an order should only be made at the time
of dealing with the police reports. No application from the Police for a direction of this
character should be entertained if made otherwise than in the final report submitted
under section 173 of the Code of Criminal Procedure. But


--- Page 348 ---
76
any Magistrate of the Ist, 2nd or 3rd class, may, of his own motion , in the course of
trying any case reported by the Police as cognizable, pass such an order at any
stage of the proceedings, before or at the time of delivering judgment, intimation of
the order being given to the Police.


--- Page 349 ---
77
PART E -- CUSTODY OF PROPERTY SENT IN BY THE POLICE

1. Kinds of property sent in by Police.-- Property sent in by the Police
is usually of three kinds:-

(i) Articles including (a) counterfeit coins, together with implements for
their manufacture, such as dyes, moulds, etc., and (b) forged currency notes and
implements such as dyes, moulds, etc,. used in the forgery of currency notes,
transmitted to the Magistrate, under section 170 of the Code of Criminal Procedure,
with the Police report in cases sent up for trial.

(ii) Property seized by the Police as stolen property or upon suspicion,
and ordered by the Magistrate, under section 523 of the Code of Criminal Procedure,
to be forwarded to headquarters.

(iii) Property taken charge of by the Police under section 25 of Act V of
1861, and ordered by the Magistrate of the district to be forwarded to headquarters.

2. Custody and disposal of the property.-- (a) With regard to property
referred to in rule 1 (i) above, other than articles enumerated in (a) and (b), the Police
Department will retain charge of it pending the disposal of the case. When the case is
decided, the property, if not returned to the owner, will be made over to the Nazir for
safe custody, or otherwise disposed of, as the Magistrate may direct.

(b) Articles enumerated in 1 (i) (a) above, will remain in the custody of the
Police Department pending the disposal of the case. At the end of the case and not
till after the appeal or revision, if any, the Court shall send them to the Treasury or
Sub-Treasury together with a short description of the case; and

(c) Articles enumerated in 1(i) (b) above produced in and confiscated by a
Court shall remain in the custody of the Police Department during the trial of the
case. After the decision of the case and the Appeal or Revision, if any, from it,
the Presiding Officer of the Court shall return, through the Police Department to
the Currency Officer, State Bank of Pakistan in whose jurisdiction the forged
note is/notes are detected for entry in their books and destruction and make
the remaining articles over to the Police Department for


--- Page 350 ---
78
their destruction or for such other action as may be found suitable in accordance with
the rules of that Department.

3. Custody and disposal of the property.-- Property of the second
kind, when sent into headquarters, will remain in the custody of the Police until the
Magistrate makes an order for the issue of a proclamation under section 523 of the
Code of Criminal Procedure, when it should be transferred to the custody of the
Nazir, or otherwise disposed of as the Magistrate may direct.

4. Custody and disposal of the property.-- Property of the third kind
should on arrival at headquarters be made over at once to the Nazir by the Police
Department.

5. Custody of coins, currency notes, etc.-- In any individual case
where the property consists of bullion, coin, currency notes, valuable securities or
jewels, and is of great value, say, above one thousand rupees, it should instead of
being made over, under the preceding rules, to the Nazir, be made over to the
Treasury Officer; coin or currency notes (other than counterfeit coin and notes) will
be treated as regular deposits under the rules in Chapter Ill, Account Code, Volume
II; bullion at its estimated value in cash, and securities, irrespective of their face
value, and jewels will be deposited for safe custody, and an entry made not in the
ordinary register, but in a special register which should be countersigned every
month by the Deputy Commissioner. The orders of the Deputy Commissioner should
first be obtained by the Police before placing bullion or jewellery, etc., for safe
custody at the Treasury.

6. Responsibility of Police for safe custody.-- Until the property is,
under the preceding rules, made over to the Treasury, the Police Department will
continue to be responsible for its safe custody. When so made over, the
responsibility for its safe custody will rest with the Nazir [or] Treasurer, as the case
may be.

7. See also Volume IV, Chapter 10. "Forfeited and Unclaimed
Property."


--- Page 351 ---
79
PART F -- INSPECTION BY POLICE OFFICERS OF RECORD AND OTHERS
AFFECTING THE WORKING OF THE POLICE

1. Inspection by Police officers of the record of criminal cases in
which a member of the Police is convicted or left under suspicion.-- District
Magistrates are instructed to permit Superintendents of Police to peruse the
proceedings and evidence in all criminal cases in which a member of the Police force
is either sentenced to punishment, or, though acquitted, is left under suspicion or
severely censured. The object is not to question the correctness of the decision of
the Magistrate, but to enable the Police to take such departmental action as may
appear necessary.

2. Copies of certain confessions to be sent to Inspector-General of
Police.-- Copies of all confessions which may be valuable from a Police point of
view, as inculpating accomplices, should be forwarded to the office of the Inspector-
General of Police for record.

3. All modifications of the order of the lower court made in appeal,
revision, or reference should be communicated to the Superintendent Police.--
“[..] Intimation shall always be given to the Court Inspector of the District
Magistrate's Court, for Communication to the Superintendent of Police, of all
modifications made by a Court of Appeal, Revision or Reference in an order passed
by a Court of Original Criminal Jurisdiction.

Note:- As copies of all such orders (except orders passed in appeal by a

Subordinate Magistrate invested with criminal appellate powers for the

communication of which special provision should be made) are sent to District

Magistrate, the above direction can be carried out without difficulty.


--- Page 352 ---
80
PART G. -- INFORMATION OF CONVICTION IN COMPLAINT CASES
TO BE FURNISHED TO THE POLICE.

1: Information of convictions in certain cases to be sent to
police.-- Magistrates are required to furnish the Police with information as to
convictions in all cases taken up by them on complaint under the Acts noted
below:-

5 I. (PAKISTAN PENAL CODE)
1 Chapter XI

Sections 193 to 195 Giving or fabricating false evidence.

Sections 211 to 377 False charge of committing an
unnatural offence.

ee Chapter XII

Sections 231 to 232 Counterfeiting of coin

Sections 233 to 235 Making. buying. selling or having
in possession of instruments or
material for courtterfeiting coin.

Section 236 Abetting the counterfeiting of coin
out of Pakistan k

Sections 237 10 238 Import or export of counterfeit
coins.

Sections 239, 240. 242. 243, Possession or delivery of counterfeit
coin.

Section 244. ; Unlawful alteration of weight or
composition of coin by persons
employed in mints.

Section 245 Unlawful removal of coining
instruments from Mints: i

Sections 246 to 253 Unlawful alteration of weight.
composition or appearance of coin
and possession and delivery of such
coin. i

Section 255. Counterfeiting of ~~ Government
stamps

Sections 256 to 237 Making, buying. selling or having
in possession instruments or


--- Page 353 ---
81
3 material for counterfeiting
{ Government stamps.
Sections 258 10 259 Possession or sale of counterfeit
Government stamps.
Section 260 Using of counterfeit stamps.
© Sections 261 and 263 Fraudulent effacement or erasure of
3 Government stamps.
3 Chapter XVI
~ Section 311 Being a thug.
© Section 354 Indecent assault on a woman.
~ Sections 363 to 369 Kidnapping.
Section 376 Rape.
| Section 377 Unnatural offence
hk Chapter XVII 5
~ Sections 379 to 382 Thefts of all kinds. ~~
Sections 384.386 to 389 Extortion of all kinds except section
385.
© Sections 392 tw 394, 397 & 398 Robbery of all Kinds.
Sections 395.396.399.402. : Dacoity of all Kinds.
Sections 400 and 401. ; Belonging to a gang of thieves,
dacoits.
Section 404. Dishonest misappropriation of
4 property belonging to a deceased
person.
Sections 406 to 408. Criminal breach of trust.
Section 409. Criminal breach of trust by public
servants.
Sections 411 to 414 Receiving stolen property.
Sections 418 to 420 Cheating of all kinds, except simple «
cheating. section 417.
Sections 429 to 433 and 435 to 440. Serious mischief.
© Sections 449 10 452 House-trespass in order to commit
i an offence.
Sections 454 to 458 Lurking house-trespass or house
i breaking other than simple. section
1 453.


--- Page 354 ---
82
Sections 459 and 460 Grievous hurt or death caused in
house-breaking.
Section 461. Dishonestly breaking open a closed
receptacle.
Section 462. Fraudulently opening a closed
receptacle held in trust.
Sections 465 to 469 Forgery.
Chapter XVIII
Sections 489-A to 489-D. Forgery of currency notes and bank
notes.
[Enhanced punishment for certain offences under Chapter XII or
Chapter XVII after previous conviction.- All offences which would, if
committed in Pakistan have been punishable under Chapter XII or Chapter XVII
of the Pakistan Penal Code with imprisonment of either description for a term
of three years or upwards. in which the order or conviction was passed by a
Court or tribunal in the territories of any Province acting under the general or
special authority of the Federal or of any Provincial Government, - (vide Act 111
of 1910. amending section 75, Pakistan Penal Code)
i IL. (CODE OF CRIMINAL PROCEDURE).
Chapter VIII
Sections 109 to 110 Bad livelihood
‘(IIL (MISCELLANEOUS ACTS).
Prohibition (Enforcement of Hadd) Order, 1979.
The Arms Ordinance, 1965 (Ordinance XX of 1965).]
IV. (OTHER OFFENCES).
All offences in cases in which the subsequent proof of the conviction so
recorded would render the person convicted liable by law to enhanced


--- Page 355 ---
83
punishment on subsequent conviction of the same or a similar offence by reason
of the proof of such former conviction and all offences in which, upon such
proof, the law establishes a presumption in favour of the prosecution.
3 ***[Omitted]
v 2: Form of statement prescribed for such information.-- A form
of the statement to be furnished to the Police is attached hereto.
E 32 Filling up of the form.-- In courts where there is ‘lan Attorney
© or Assistant Attorney, this official should] be held responsible for filling up the
form in question. and Magistrate will only be required to sign it. In other
Courts, Magistrate will, after filling up the form send it to the officer-in-charge
of the nearest Police Station.
8 4. Indent for forms.-- Printed forms in English for these statements
~ should be indented for in the usual way. The supply of vernacular forms should
be arranged for by District Magistrate.
STATEMENT SHOWING CASES TAKEN UP BY THE MAGISTRATES ON COMPLAINT
© UNDER SECTIONS OF THE PAKISTAN PENAL CODE AND OTHER ACTS, OF WHICH
THE POLICE DEPARTMENT MAINTAINS A RECORD. WHERL SUCH CASES END IN
b LCONVICTION
ER re LS SU PRS Se
1 2 3 4 5 6 7
L Name, parentage,
4 District in | caste, residence Offence Date of | Name and
3 which trial | and occupation of which | Sentence| sentence powers of Remarks
is held of person convicted Magistrate
convicted
4 |
i pial Ll
3 5, Criminal statistics supplied to Police. For information
regarding criminal statistics to be supplied hy District Magistrates tothe Police
© every year. see Volume IV. Chapter 23 -- "Reports and Returns.”
{ Z BIG
3 2-98
: 327 ~Y )
i md C8 yo)
Ehieazana Da ¥ i=
1 Cet 12)
hs AV Sn)
: BRAT


--- Page 356 ---
84
PART H -- MISCELLANEOUS

1. Cases against Police officers.-- For cases against Police officers
see Chapter 6, "Cases against Government servants and Soldiers."

‘[2. Police reports sent to Magistrates through a superior Police
officer- The following reports sent to Magistrates shall be submitted through a
superior officer of Police:-

(a) Information reports or charge registers, under section 157, in all cases
in which the Police have abstained from investigation.

(b) Completion reports, including charge-sheet, under section 173 in all
cases in which no person is sent up for trial and whether any person has been
arrested or not.

(c) Completion reports, including charge-sheets, under section 173, in all
cases sent for trial at the headquarter of a district. (Punjab Government Notification
No. 77, dated 26-4-1883).

The following Officers of Police shall be deemed to be "Superior Officers"
within the meaning of these rules:-

Under clauses (a) and (b), the Superintendent of Police; and when the
Superintendent of Police is unable to receive such reports, an Assistant
Superintendent of Police, and when Superintendent of Police and Assistant
Superintendent of Police is unable to receive such reports, an Inspector of Police.

Under clause (c), the Superintendent of Police, and in his absence, an
Assistant Superintendent of Police, and in the absence of the Superintendent of
Police and the Assistant Superintendent of Police, an Inspector of Police.]

3. Copy of judgment criticising conduct of Police to be sent to
higher authorities.-- For transmission of a copy of judgment in which the conduct of
the Police is criticised to higher authorities see Chapter I-H, paragraph 6.


--- Page 357 ---
85
CHAPTER 12
POLICE DIARIES AND STATEMENTS
BEFORE THE POLICE

When accused is entitled to see Police diaries or statement of a witness
recorded by Police.-- The Police diaries called for under section 172 of the Code of
Criminal Procedure should not be shown to accused persons, or to their agents, or
pleaders, except under the circumstances stated in the second clause of section 172
of the Code, that is, when they are used by a Police Officer who made them to
refresh his memory, or if the Court uses them for the purpose of contradicting such
Police Officer. Sessions Judges and District Magistrates should issue such orders as
are necessary to guard against the Police diaries being inspected by persons not
entitled to see them. The right of an accused person to be furnished with a copy of
the statement of a witness recorded in a Police diary is dealt with in section 162 of
the Code.

Note:- These restrictions do not apply to person duly authorized to conduct
the prosecution in any case.

2. Instructions regarding despatch of Police diaries and their
translation with the records of criminal cases to the High Court.-- In submitting
the records of criminal cases to the High Court, the Police diaries and English
translations, or notes of them, should be separated from the records and placed in a
sealed cover which should then be placed with the record.

3. Use of Police diary by Court.-- As to the manner in which Police

diaries may be used by courts, the following remarks should be borne in mind:-
The provisions of section 172, that any Criminal Court may send for the Police diaries, not as
evidence in the case but to aid it in an inquiry or trial, empowers the court to use the diary not
only for the purpose of enabling the Police Officer who compiled it to refresh his memory, or
for the purpose of contradicting him but for the purpose of tracing the investigation through its
various stages, the intervals which may have elapsed in it, and the steps by which a
confession may have been elicited, or other important evidence may have been obtained. The
Court may use the special diary, not as evidence of any date, fact or statement referred to in
it, but as containing indications of sources and lines of inquiry and as suggesting the names
of persons whose evidence may be material for the purpose of doing justice between the
state and the accused.


--- Page 358 ---
86
Should the Court consider that any date, fact or statement referred to in the Police diary is, or
may be, material, it cannot accept the diary as evidence, in any sense, of such date, fact or
statement, and must, before allowing any date, fact or statement referred to in the diary to
influence its mind, establish such date, fact or statement by evidence.
Criminal Courts should avail themselves of the assistance of Police diaries for the purpose of
discovering sources and lines of inquiry and the names of persons who may be in a position
to give material evidence, and should call for diaries for this purpose.

4. Use of statement of witness made before Police; when accused
may get its copies.-- As regards the proper use of statements made by witnesses
before the Police during the course of an investigation, the provisions of section 162
of the Code should be carefully studied. It would appear from the provisions of that
section that no statement made by a witness to a Police Officer during the course of
an investigation under Chapter XIV of the Code can be proved at all for any purpose
during the trial, if the statement has not been reduced into writing. If such a statement
has been reduced into writing its use for any purpose whatever is also prohibited
except when (a) it is the statement of witness called for the prosecution, and (b) the
accused desires to use the statement or any portion thereof in the manner provided
in “[Article 140 of the Qunun-e-Shahadat, 1984], to contradict the witness and thus
impeach his credit. In such circumstances, the Court is bound to furnish the accused,
on his request, with a copy of the statement of the witness before the Police unless it
thinks it fit to withhold it under the proviso to section 162. The original written record
of the statement or any portion of it, which is relied upon, must be put to the witness
as required by [Article 140 of the Qanun-e-Shahadat, 1984], and then the statement
can be used for impeaching the credit of the witness as stated above. ™[...]

5. Method of contradicting a witness with previous statement.-- The
procedure contemplated by Article 140 of the Qanun-e-Shahadat, 1984, should be
carefully followed. When a witness is found to make statements conflicting with
previous statements made by him in writing or reduced into writing, and it is intended
to contradict him with the previous statements, the relevant portions of the
previous statements should be read out to him and his


--- Page 359 ---
87
attention should be called to the discrepancies, and he should then be asked to offer
his explanation(if any) with reference to the same. The record of the Magistrate or
Judge should show clearly that this procedure has been followed. The best way of
doing this should be to put direct questions reciting the relevant portions of the two
statements and asking for an explanation as to the discrepancies between the same
and to record fully such questions and the answers given by the witness.

6. Use of First Information Report for purposes of corroboration of
statement.-- It will thus appear that, as a result of the provisions of section 162 of the
Code of Criminal Procedure, a statement, made by a witness before the Police,
cannot be used to corroborate his testimony inspite of the provisions of [Article 153
Qanun-e-Shahadat, 1984,] (ef. I. L. R. 6 Lah. 171). The first information report
recorded under section 157 of the Code, however, does not fall within the scope of
section 162 as it is not a statement made in the course of an investigation and hence
it can be used to corroborate the testimony of the person making the report if he
appears as a witness. It frequently happens, however, that the person making the
first information report has no personal knowledge at all of the fact stated in the
report and in such cases the report has no value except in so far as it discloses the
manner in which the Police obtained the first information about the offence.

‘[7. Confession made by accused to Police is admissible in evidence
if it has led to discovery of any fact.- Section 162 of the Code of Criminal
Procedure applies to the statement of persons examined as witnesses by the Police
and not to the statement of an accused person, and it does not modify or override the
provisions of Article 40 of the Qanun-e-Shahadat, 1984 in any way. Consequently a
confession by an accused person to the Police, whether it has been reduced into
writing or not, is admissible in evidence under Article 40 of the Qanun-e-Shahadat,
1984, if any fact is deposed to as having been discovered in consequence of such a
confession.

8. Dying declaration excluded from operation of section 162,
Cr.P.C.- Dying declarations falling under Article 46(1) of Qanun-e-Shahadat, 1984
are excluded from the scope of section 162 of the Code of Criminal Procedure.]


--- Page 360 ---
88
CHAPTER 13
CONFESSIONS AND STATEMENTS
OF ACCUSED PERSONS

Statements of accused at various stages explained.-- The provisions of
sections 164, 342 and 364 of the Criminal Procedure Code with regard to the
confessions and statements of accused persons should be carefully studied. Section
164 deals with the recording of statements and confessions at any stage before the
commencement of an enquiry or trial. Section 342 deals with the examination of
accused persons during the course of the enquiry or trial. Section 364 prescribes the
manner in which the examination of an accused person is to be recorded.

2. Use of confession of accused during Police trial recorded by
Magistrate.-- The object of Section 164, Criminal Procedure Code, is to provide a
method of securing a reliable record of statements or confessions made during the
course of the Police investigation, which could be used, if necessary, during the
enquiry or trial. Under Article 38 of the Qanun-e-Shahadat, 1984], a confession to a
Police Officer is in-admissible in evidence, and hence when an accused person
confesses during the Police investigation, the Police frequently get it recorded by a
Magistrate under section 164, Criminal Procedure Code, 1898, and it can then be
used to the extent to which it may be admissible under the ‘[Qanun-e-Shahadat,
1984.]

3. Presumption attached to confessions recorded by Magistrate and
its evidential value. Safeguards provided in law to obtain a voluntary and
precisely recorded confession.-- Under [Article 91 of the Qanun-e-Shahadat
1984], a Court is bound to presume that a statement or confession of an accused
person, taken in accordance with law and purporting to be signed by any Judge or
Magistrate, is genuine, and that the certificate or note as to the circumstances
under which it was taken, purporting to be made by the person signing it, are
true, and that such statement or confession was duly taken. The words "taken
accordance with law" occurring in this section are very important and it is
essential that in recording a statement or confession under section 164, the
provision of that section [shall] be strictly followed. “[...] The evidential value
of a confession depends upon its voluntary character and


--- Page 361 ---
89

the precision with which it is reproduced and hence the section provides safeguards
to secure this end. These safeguards are of great importance, as confessions are
often retracted at a later stage and it becomes necessary for the court to ascertain
whether the alleged confession was actually and voluntarily made. The mere fact that
a confession is retracted does not render it inadmissible in evidence, but the Court
has to scrutinize any such confession with the utmost care and accept it with the
greatest caution. Experience and common sense in fact show that in the absence of
some material corroboration it is not safe to convict merely on a retracted confession,
unless from the peculiar circumstances under which it was made and judging from
the reasons, alleged or apparent, of retraction, there remains a high degree of
certainty that the confession, notwithstanding its having been resiled from, is
genuine. "[...]

4. Important features of Section 164, Criminal Procedure Code.--
Some important features of section 164 “...] are:-

(a) Statements or confessions made in the course of an investigation can
be recorded only by a Magistrate of the first class or of the second class who has
been specially empowered by the Provincial Government.

(b) Confessions must be recorded and signed in the manner provided in
section 364.

(c) Before recording any such confession the Magistrate shall explain to
the person making it that he is not bound to make a confession, and that if he does
so it may be used in evidence against him.

(d) No Magistrate shall record any such confession unless upon
questioning the person making it he has reason to believe that it was made
voluntarily, failure to question has been held to vitiate the confession. “...]

(e) The memorandum set forth in section 164 (3) must be appended at
the foot of the record of the confession.

(f) It is not necessary that the Magistrate receiving or recording a
confession or statement should be Magistrate having jurisdiction in the case.

“l(g) Any such statement may be recorded by such Magistrate in the
presence of the accused, and the accused given an opportunity of cross-examining
the witness making the statement. [See Sub-Section (1-A) of Section 164 Cr.P.C.]


--- Page 362 ---
90

5. Form prescribed for recording confessions.-- [For recording

confessions taken under section 164 of the code the following form shall be used:-]
RECORD OF CONFESSION MADE BY AN ACCUSED PERSON
(Section 164 of the Code of Criminal Procedure)
ere Division
In the Court Of-—-—mmmmmmm meme
THE STATE,
versus

The confession Of---------nnnmmmmmmmm eee taken by me--
mm @ Magistrate of the-----------------—-—--—--—----District, this-----
mmm d@y Of 19

Memorandum of Enquiry
(The Magistrate shall first, as required by section 164(3), Code of Criminal
Procedure, explain to the accused person that he is not bound to make a confession,
and that if he does so, it may be used as evidence against him, and shall then put
and record answers to the following questions. If the answers are of such a character
as to require him to do so, he should put such further questions as may be necessary
to enable him to judge whether the accused person is acting voluntarily. In arriving at
his conclusion on this point the Magistrate should consider inter alia the period during
which the accused person has been in Police custody and make sure that the
confession is not the result of any undue influence or ill-treatment. Special care
should be taken when women or children are produced by the Police for their
confessions being recorded).
1. Q.-- Do you understand that you are not bound to make a confession?
Am


--- Page 363 ---
91

2 Q. Do you understand that your statement is being recorded by a
Magistrate, and that if you make a confession, it may be used as evidence against
you?

Ame

3. Q.-— How long have you been in police custody?

Ame

4. Q.—Do you understand that after making a statement before me you
will not be remanded to police custody, but will be sent to the judicial lock-up?

Ame

5. Q.—Understanding these facts, are you making a statement before
me voluntarily?

Ame

6. Q—What are your reasons for wishing to make a statement?

Ame
Statement of accused
(Mark or signature of accused). Magistrate.

| have explained to ------------—-——--- that he is not bound to make a
confession, and that if he does so, any confession he may make may be used as
evidence against him and | believe that this confession was voluntarily made. It was
taken in my presence and hearing, and was read over to the person making it, and
admitted by him to be correct, and it contains a full and true account of the statement
made by him.

Dated Magistrate.
6. Instructions for recording confessions.—Unless there are exceptional
reasons to the contrary confessions should be rcorded in open Court and during
Court hours. Police officers investigating the case should not be present.***[...]


--- Page 364 ---
92

7. Accused who has made a confession should not be kept in
Police custody, but should be kept in Judicial lock-up separate from other
prisoners.—An accused person who had made a confession before a Magistrate
should be sent to the judicial lock-up and not made over to the Police after the
confession has been recorded. If the Police subsequently require the accused person
for the investigation, a written application should be made giving reasons in detail
why he is required, and an order obtained from the Magistrate for the purpose of
making a confession, has declined to make a confession or has made a statement
which is unsatisfactory from the point of view of the prosecution he should not be
remanded to Police custody.

7-A. When remanding to the lock-up an accused person who has made a
confession, the Magistrate shall record an order for him to be kept separate from
other prisoners as far as may be practicable.

8. Accused can be examined to explain the prosecution evidence
against him and not to fill up gaps in that evidence .—Section 342 of the Code
empowers the Court to put questions to the accused at any stage of enquiry or trial to
enable him to explain any circumstances appearing in evidence against him. The
question put under this section must be confined to the points brought out in the
evidence and should not be in the nature of cross-examination of the accused
person. Nor should the power given by the section be used to elicit information from
the accused to fill up gaps in the prosecution evidence (cf I.L.R 4 Lah. 55). For, the
conviction of an accused person can only be based on the evidence produced by the
prosecution, no oath can be administered to the accused and the answers given by
him can only be taken into consideration in explanation of the prosecution evidence.

8A. Accused can be questioned generally on the case only after
prosecution evidence has been finished.—The Magistrate is allowed by section 342
of the Code of Criminal Procedure to examine the accused at an early stage of the
case for the purpose of enabling him to explain any circumstances appearing in
the evidence against him. This provision is intended for the benefit of the
accused, and must not be used to elicit his defence before


--- Page 365 ---
93

the prosecution evidence is complete. Magistrate sometimes question the accused
generally on the case as soon as a prima facie case has been made out, but before
the prosecution evidence is complete. This is incorrect. According to the second part
of clause (1) of section 342, it is only after the completion of the prosecution evidence
that accused can be questioned generally on the case.
|
9. Failure to examine accused at the close of prosecution evidence vitiates
the trial. —Section 342 makes it obligatory for a Court to examine the accused
generally on the case after the witness for the prosecution have been examined and
before the accused is called for his defence. Even when an accused person has
been examined at a earlier stage of Court must examine the accused generally after
the close of the prosecution case (i.e.. after the examination and cross-examination
of prosecution witnesses and their further cross-examination of prosecution
witnesses and their further cross-examination, if any, after the charge is framed) and
before the accused is called upon to produce his defence, so as to give him an
opportunity to explain any points, which were not included in the questions put to him
at earlier stages. *[Compliance with the provision of section 342 must be ensured for
non-compliance may have the effect of vitiating the trial.]
10. Written statement of accused.—Under Section 256 of the Code, if the
accused person puts in a written statement, it should be filed with the record. But a
written statement of this kind does not relieve the Court of the duty of examining the
accused in Court after the close of the prosecution evidence as laid down in section
342.

***[Omitted]
1. Mode of recording examination of accused.—Section 364 provides
the mode in which the examination of an accused person is recorded. The
question put to the accused and the answers given by him should be distinctly
and accurately recorded, but the accused must confine himself to relevant
answers to the questions asked by the Court. Section 364 does not prevent a
Court from refusing to record irrelevant answers to questions put by it to the
accused under section 342. If necessary, the Court may even prevent the
accused making lengthy, irrelevant answers. The examination of the accused
should be recorded in the language in which he is examined, and, if that is not


--- Page 366 ---
94

practicable, in the language of the Court or in English. In cases in which examination
is not recorded by the Magistrate or Judge himself, he must record a memo thereof in
the language of the Court or in English if he is sufficiently acquainted with the latter
language. The examination must be read over to the accused and made conformable
to what he declares to be the truth. The Magistrate or judge must then certify under
his own hand that the examination was taken down in his presence and hearing, and
that the record contains a full and true account of what was stated.]

**[The newly amended section 340 sub-section (2) of the Code deserves
special attention. It provides that an accused person shall if he does not plead guilty
give evidence on oath in disproof of charges or allegations made against him or any
person charged or tried together with him at the same trial.

The stage for the accused person’s statement on oath is after his statement
under section 342 has been recorded. His attention should then be called to the
requirements of section 340, sub-section (2) and he should be asked if he would
make a statement on oath].

12. When evidence may be led to prove that accused duly made the
confession or statement.—Under section 533 of the Code, if any Court, before
which a confession or other statement of an accused persn recorded or purporting to
be recorded under section 164 or section 364 is intended to be or has been received
in evidence, finds that any of the provisions of either of such sections have not been
complied with by the Magistrate recording the statement it must take evidence that
such person duly made the statement recorded and such a statement may then
become admissible in evidence notwithstanding the provision of *[Article 102 of the
Qanun-e-Shahadat, 1984], provided the error has not prejudiced the accused as to
his defence on merits.

13. Instructions about recording confessions.—(i) The following
instructions have been issued by the Punjab Government for the guidance of
Magistrates recording confessions (Punjab Government circular letter No. 6091-J-
36/39829 (H. -- Judl.), dated the 19the December 1936, to all District Magistrates in
the Punjab):-

(a) Accused should be left for some time away from influence of Police.—
In order to ensure that a statement or confession under


--- Page 367 ---
95
section 164 of the Code of Criminal Procedure is made voluntarily, the following
precautions should be taken. Before the Magistrate proceeds to record the
confession, he should arrange-so far as is compatible with his safety and that of his
staff and with the safe custody of the prisoner — that the latter is left for some time
(say, for half an hour) out of the hearing of police officers or other persons likely to
influence him.

(b) Confession recorded should not be handed over to the Police.—

The Magistrate who records a confession under section 164, Criminal
Procedure Code, should not hand over the document after completion to
the Police officer in charge of the prisoner, but should forward it, as
required by sub-section (2) of that section, direct to the Magistrate by
whom the case is to be enquired into or tried.

(c) Copy of recorded confession may be given to Police. —These instructions
do not prohibit a Magistrate who has recorded a confession or statement
from allowing the Police to take a copy of it before it is forwarded to the
trial Magistrate: and Magistrates should always permit the Police to take a
copy if they express a desire to do so. When permission is so given, the
Police copy should be written out by a Police officer or clerk from the
dictation of an officer of the court, in the actual presence of the Magistrate
who recorded the confession.

Time and labour can be saved if the Magistrate recording a confession makes
a carbon copy which can subsequently be made available for Police purposes, or
alternatively dictate a copy to an official of the court at the same time as he himself
writes the original.


--- Page 368 ---
96
CHAPTER 14
Approvers

1. Definition.—The term “Approver” is neither defined not used in the
Criminal Procedure Code, but is usually applied to a person, supposed to be directly
or indirectly concerned in or privy to an offence to whom a pardon is [tendered] under
section 337 of the Code with a view to [obtaining] his testimony against other persons
guilty of the offence.***[...]

*[2 when pardon may be tendered and by whom.- A tender of pardon
can only be made in the case of certain offences specified in section 337 of the Code
and by the Magistrates mentioned therein.

By section 338 of the Code the High court or the Court of Session trying the case
may tender or order the District Magistrate to tender a pardon on the same conditions
as are mentioned in section 337].

3. Reasons for tendering pardon should be recorded and extent of
pardon explained to the intended approver.--***[...]

In all cases in which a pardon is tendered. [the reasons for tendering the
pardon must be recorded and ] the intended approver should always be made
carefully to understand the extent of the pardon offered to him: it should be
explained to him: it should be explained to him that he is being tendered a pardon
and not be prosecuted in respect of such and such a case and no others.

4. ***[Omitted]

5. Testimony of an approver generally requires corroboration of conviction.—
The evidence of an approver being that of an accomplice is prima facie of a tainted
character, and has, therefore, to be scrutinized with the utmost care and accepted
with caution ***[...] As a matter of law, pure and simple, a conviction is not
bad merely because it proceeds upon the uncorroborated testimony of
an accomplice (vide *[Article 16 of the Qanun-e-Shahadat 1984]. But it has
now become almost a universal rule ***[...] not to base a conviction on the
testimony of an accomplice unless it is corroborated in material particulars. As to
the amount of corroboration which is necessary, no hard and fast rule can be
laid down. It will depend upon various factors, such as


--- Page 369 ---
97
the nature of the crime, the nature of the approver's evidence, the extent of his
complicity, and so forth. But, as a rule, corroboration is considered necessary not
only in respect of the general story of the approver, but in respect of facts
establishing the prisoner's identity and his participation in the crime.]

6. *%*[Omitted]

7. If approver gives false evidence he can be tried for the offence
and also for perjury.—An approver is under the condition of his pardon bound to
make a full and true disclosure of the whole of the circumstances within his
knowledge relative to the offence and to every other person concerned, whether, as
principal or abetter, in the commission thereof. If the approver fails to comply with this
condition and gives false evidence, he is liable to be prosecuted for the offence in
respect of which pardon was granted and also for perjury. He cannot, however, be
tried for the former offence except upon a certificate granted by the Public Prosecutor
as laid down in section 339. Sanction of the High Court is necessary for his
prosecution for giving false evidence. An application to the High Court for sanction to
prosecute an approver for giving false evidence should be by motion on behalf of the
State and by a letter of reference***[....].

*[8.  Approver should be kept in judicial custody until close of trial.-
An approver accepting a pardon under section 337 of the Code has to be detained in
custody until the termination of the trial. The word “ custody” as used in section
337(3) has not been defined in the Code, but it has been held that this “ custody”
means judicial and not Police custody. The detention of an approver, therefore, must
be in a judicial lock-up under the order of the Court and not in Police custody].


--- Page 370 ---
98
CHAPTER 15
PROCEEDINGS AGAINST ABSCONDERS AND
RECORD OF EVIDENCE IN THEIR ABSENCE.
PART A.—MEASURES TO ENFORCE APPEARANCE.

1. Attachment and sale of property.—Section 87 and 88 of the Code
of Criminal Procedure provide for the attachment and sale of the property of any
accused person or witness whose presence is required by a Criminal Court as a last
remedy for compelling his attendance. The procedure laid down must be strictly
followed, otherwise the attachment and subsequent sale will be liable to be set aside.
The proper forms for the proclamation, attachment, etc.. to be used in such
proceedings, are given in schedule V of the Code.

2. Proclamation.—No proclamation can issue under section 87 unless a
warrant has issued in the first instance and the Court has reason to believe that the
person against whom it was issued has absconded or is concealing himself so that
such warrant cannot be executed. The proclamation must fix a date for appearance
of the person at a specified place and that place must be not less than thirty days
from the date of the publication of the proclamation. The proclamation must be
published in the manner specified in sub-section (2) of section 87, and the Court
should be careful to record the statement as regards the due publication of the
proclamation as required by subsection (3) of that section. The Court has the
discretion to issue and order for attachment of property simultaneously with the issue
of a proclamation. Section 88 ***[....] provides for the summary investigation of claims
of objectors to the attachment by Magistrates. The decision of the Magistrate can be
challenged by a civil suit within a year.

3. Consequences of non-appearance of proclaimed person; Sale of
property.—If the proclaimed person does not appear within
the time specified the proclamation, the property under attachment remains
‘at the Government’. It can be sold at once at the discretion of the Court when
it is liable to speedy the Court considers that the sale would be for the benefit of the
owner., otherwise, it cannot be sold until the


--- Page 371 ---
99
expiration of six months form the attachment and until the disposal of claims of
objectors (if any) by the Magistrate.

*[4. Directions for sale, Only life interest can be sold in certain
cases.- In conducting sales, the interest of the absconding person in the attached
property which is to be sold should be clearly specified so as to avoid complications
in the future].

5. Property or its proceeds may be given to absconder if he appears
before Court.—If the absconder appears or is apprehended and brought before the
Court within two years from the date of the attachment of his property and satisfies
the Court (i) that he did not abscond or conceal himself for the purpose of evading
execution of the warrant and (ii) that he had no such notice of the proclamation as
could enable him to attend within the specified time, he can get the property back or
its net proceeds if it has been sold (section 89).


--- Page 372 ---
100
PART B.—RECORD OF EVIDENCE IN THE ABSENCE OF THE ACCUSED.

1. Introductory.—The provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure in
regard to the taking and recording of evidence in the absence of accused persons
are important and should not be overlooked.

*[2. Evidence recorded in the absence of the absconding accused
may be used against him in certain cases.- Section 512(1) of the Code of Criminal
Procedure, 1898, provides that if it is proved that an accused person has absconded,
and that there is no immediate prospect of arresting him the Court competent to try or
send for trial to the Court of Session or High Court such person for the offence
complained of may, in his absence, examine the witnesses (if any) produced on
behalf of the prosecution and record their depositions. Any such depositions may on
the arrest of such person, be given in evidence against him, on the enquiry with, or
trial for, the offence with which he is charged, if the deponent is dead or incapable of
giving evidence or his attendance cannot be procured without an amount of delay,
expense or inconvenience which under the circumstances of the case would be
unreasonable. Section 164 enables a Magistrate to record, in the same manner as
evidence, any statement regarding an offence made by an accused person
whomsoever it may implicate.]

3. Proceedings under section 512.—Proceedings under section 512 of
the Code should commence by evidence being taken and recorded (1) that the
accused person has absconded and (2) that due pursuit having been made, there is
no immediate prospect of arresting him.

4. Medical evidence should be recorded in some cases. — In cases
where the crime has terminated fatally or where medical evidence would ordinarily be
required at the trial, the evidence of the medical officer as to the cause of death, or
as to the injuries inflicted, should invariably be recorded.

5. Section 512 can be availed of also in cases when offence is not
known.-- In cases where the crime has been committed by some person
unknown and the offence is punishable with death or *[imprisonment for life], the
High Court may order an inquiry similar to that under section 512(1) of the


--- Page 373 ---
101
Code, and statements recorded in that inquiry can be used as evidence against the
offender subsequently discovered.

6. Confession by accused implicating as absconder cannot be used
after the execution of the confession case.-- *[The] confession by accused
persons, who have been executed, implicating an absconder cannot be used after
the execution of the confessor against the absconder, when the latter is found and
placed upon his trial, as he is not being tried in a joint trial with the other, and has had
no opportunity to cross-examine. *[(See Articles 43 and 44 if Qanun-e-Shahadat.
1984)].


--- Page 374 ---
102
CHAPTER 16
EXTRADITION AND FOREIGN
JURISDICTION
(CRIMINAL COURTS).
PART A.—EXTRADITION FROM PAKISTAN

1. Definition.-- Extradition means the surrender of a fugitive offender
by one State to another in which the offender is liable to be punished or has been
convicted. The law of extradition is based on the broad principle that it is in the
interests of all nations that crimes recognised as such by the civilized world should
not go unpunished.

*[2. Laws applicable.- The Extradition Act, 1972 (XXI of 1972), deals with
the surrender of fugitive offenders to Foreign States.

3. Procedure of surrender of fugitives to Foreign States.- The
Extradition Act, 1972 (XXI of 1972) defines the ‘extradition treaty’, ‘fugitive offender’
and ‘treaty State’ and lays down the procedure in Chapter II, for the surrender of
fugitive offenders to foreign states, that is to say, the States with which an extradition
treaty is for the time being in operation as well as other foreign states in relation to
which a direction under sub-section (1) of section 4 of the said Act is in force.

4. Arrest and detention of “fugitive criminal” of Foreign States.- (1)
When the Government of a Foreign State makes requisition for the surrender of a
fugitive offender in accordance with section 6 of the Extradition Act, 1972, and the
Federal Government has issued an order to enquire into the case to any Magistrate
of the First Class(section 7), the Magistrate shall make an enquiry under section 8
and if, after the enquiry, the Magistrate is of the opinion-

(a) that a prima facie case has not been made out in support of the
requisition, he shall discharge the fugitive offender and make report to that effect to
the Federal Government;

(b) that a prima facie case has been made out in support of the
requisition, he shall-

(i) report the result of his enquiry to the Federal Government;


--- Page 375 ---
103

(ii) forward, together with such report, any such statement which the
fugitive offender may desire to submit for the consideration of the Federal
Government; and

(iii) subject to any provision relating to bail, commit the fugitive offender to
prison to await order of the Federal Government(see section 10 of the Extradition
Act, 1972).

2) The Federal Government may upon receipt of report under section 10,
issue a warrant for the delivery of the fugitive offender at a place and to a person to
be named in the warrant (section 11).

If a fugitive offender is not conveyed out of Pakistan within two months of his
committal, he may apply to the High Court for his discharge (section 12).

The Federal Government may, for reasons mentioned in section 13, order a
fugitive offender to be discharged].

5. ***[Omitted].

6. ***[Omitted].

7. ***[Omitted].


--- Page 376 ---
104
PART B.—EXTRADITION TO BRITISH INDIA.
Part-B. --**[Omitted.]


--- Page 377 ---
105
PART C.— JURISDICTION OF CRIMINAL COURTS
IN REGARD TO OFFENCES COMMITTED OUTSIDE PAKISTAN.

*[1. Persons liable to be tried.- Section 188 of the Code of Criminal
Procedure, 1898, renders citizens of Pakistan and servants of the State liable to be
tried in Pakistan for offences committed beyond the limits of Pakistan in certain
cases.]

2. ***[Omitted].

3. ***[Omitted].

*[4. Liability of citizens of Pakistan.- By section 188 of the Code of
Criminal Procedure a citizen of Pakistan is liable to be dealt with by the Pakistan
Courts in Pakistan for any offence committed by him in any place whatever beyond
the limits of Pakistan as if it had been committed at any place in Pakistan at which he
may be found and he is liable to be punished for it, if it is an offence under the
Pakistan Penal Code, by force of section 3 of the latter Code.]

5. ***[Omitted].

6. Trial permissible only on the certificate of Political Agent or
sanction of Government.-- The *[first] proviso to section 188 of the Code of
Criminal Procedure requires that no charge as to any such offence as is referred to in
that section shall be inquired into in Pakistan, without a certificate of the Political
Agent, if there be one, for the territory in which the offence is alleged to have been
committed. If there is no Political Agent, the sanction of the Provincial Government is
necessary.

7. Even inquiry not permissible without Certificate.--The aforesaid
proviso does not merely prohibit a trial upon a charge framed after an inquiry, but
even an inquiry into the accusation in the absence of a certificate, when requisite.
The section itself, however, still leaves a Court competent to issue process, such a
summons or a warrant, or to take any other step which is merely preliminary to an
inquiry.

8. ***[Omitted].
9. ***[Omitted].


--- Page 378 ---
106

*[10. Court to record a finding about nationality of offender and insert
it in charge.- It should be noted that a Magistrate is not (1) at liberty to shirk an
inquiry into the nationality of an accused person merely because it may appear to
him a question of nicety or difficulty: and (2) competent to dispense with the
enforcement of the law and absolve a citizen of Pakistan from the penal
consequences of an offence, prima facie established against him merely because the
offence was not committed within the limits of Pakistan.]

11. **[Omitted].

12. Special rule of evidence.—Section 189 contains a special rule of
evidence for inquiries and trials under section 188. The object is to render admissible
evidence taken before Courts which are not Criminal Courts of Pakistan, in order to
supply evidence which might not be otherwise procurable.


--- Page 379 ---
107
PART D.— MISCELLANEOUS

*[1. Power of Police to arrest without warrant.- It should be noted
that section 54, seventhly, of the Code of Criminal Procedure, authorizes police
officers to arrest, without an order from a magistrate and without a warrant, a person
who has been concerned in or against whom a reasonable complaint has been made
or credible information has been received or a reasonable suspicion exists of his
having been concerned in any act committed at any place out of Pakistan, which if
committed in Pakistan would have been punishable as an offence, and for which he
is, under any law relating to extradition or otherwise liable to be apprehended or
detained in custody in Pakistan.]

1-A  **[Omitted].

2 ***[Omitted].

Appendix ***[Omitted].


--- Page 380 ---
108
CHAPTER 17
LUNATICS
PART A—GENERAL.

1. Classification.—Lunatics may be classed as follows:-

(a) Criminal lunatics.

(b) Lunatics for whose detention in an asylum a reception order has been

passed.

(c) Lunatics so found by inquisition.

*[2. Criminal Lunatics.- Criminal lunatics are lunatics for whose
confinement an order has been passed under section 466 or 471 of the Code of
Criminal Procedure, 1898, or under section 30 of the Prisoners Act, 1900.]

3. Reception orders.—Reception orders are dealt with in Chapter 11 of
Lunacy Act, 1912 **[(IV of 1912)] which lays down the procedure to be observed
before a person, other than a criminal lunatic or a lunatic so found by inquisition, can
be detained in an asylum. Such reception orders are usually made by Magistrates.

4. Lunatics so found by inquisition.—Lunatics so found by inquisition
are dealt with by the Civil Courts (See Part Ill, Lunancy Act, 1912).

5. Term “Mental Patient” and “Mental hospital” explained.—
Although persons suffering from unsoundness of mind are described as lunatics in
the Acts mentioned above, it is now considered more humane to refer to them as
“mental patients”. Similarly, institutions for the care and treatment of such persons,
which were formerly called Lunatic Asylums, are now called mental Hospitals. The
latter term should ordinarily be used in correspondence.

6. Admission in the Punjab Mental Hospital.—The only institution of
this kind in the Punjab is the Punjab is the Punjab Mental Hospital at Lahore, to
which all mental patients, whose confinement is considered necessary, are now sent.
Accommodation is limited, and the earliest possible notice should be given,
whenever it is proposed to send a patient to the Hospital.***[....]

7. Further directions about admission.—If possible, arrangements should be
made for the patient to reach the hospital before 5 p.m. and


--- Page 381 ---
109
admission on *[Fridays] and gazetted holidays should be avoided. Lahore
Cantonment is the nearest railway station for the hospital. Patients should invariably
be brought to the hospital in a conveyance, and the escort should be instructed to
see that the patient is properly clothed.


--- Page 382 ---
110
PART B.— CRIMINAL LUNATIC-ENQUIRY.

*[1. Magistrate bound to make enquiry about unsoundness of mind of
the accused,- When a Magistrate, holding an inquiry or a trial, has reason to believe
that the accused is of unsound mind, and consequently incapable of making his
defence the Magistrate shall inquire into the fact of such unsoundness and shall
cause such person to be examined by the Civil Surgeon of the district or such other
medical officer as the Provincial Government directs, and thereupon shall examine
such Surgeon of Officer as a witness, and shall reduce the examination to writing
(section 464 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1898).]

2. ***[Omitted]

3. Stay of proceedings if unsoundness of mind proved.—If
unsoundness of mind is established to the satisfaction of the Magistrate, a finding to
that effect should be recorded, and further proceedings should be stayed.

*[4. Trial of the fact of insanity in Sessions trials.- The procedure in a
Court of Session is slightly different. There, the fact of unsoundness and incapacity is
to be tried in the first instance by the Court and there is no specific provision for an
examination by a Medical Officer. Trial of the fact, however, forms part of the trial
before the Court; and the Court would ordinarily take the necessary evidence before
proceeding to a finding.]

5. Accused may be released on security.-- ***[...] After the accused
has been found to be of unsound mind, and incapable of making his defence, the
Magistrate or Court may release the accused on sufficient security being given that
he shall be-

[Q))] Properly taken care of;

(2) Prevented from doing injury to himself or any other person; and

3) Produced before the Magistrate or Court or such other officer as the

Magistrate or Court appoints, when required.
Such an order may be passed whether the case is bailable or not (section 466 of the
Code).


--- Page 383 ---
111

6. In releasing accused due regard should be paid to public
safety.—An order for release, however, should not be passed without due regard to
the public interest. If the crime of which such a person is accused be an offence
against the person, or if there is reason to believe that he has at any time been
aggressive, a detailed medical history sheet should in all cases be obtained, and this
should be consulted before orders are passed regarding bail. In the event of *[such a
person] having at any time exhibited tendency to violence, it is the duty of the
Magistrate or *[Court to be satisfied] that a sufficient length of time has elapsed since
such manifestati8on to render a recurrence improbable, and that the sureties are in
position to control the actions of the lunatic should they recur.

7. Action to be taken when accused cannot be released on bail. —If
the case is one in which, in the opinion of the Magistrate or Court, bail should not be
taken, or if sufficient security is not given, the Magistrate or Court must order the
accused to be detained in safe custody in such place and manner as he or it may
think fit [section 466(2)]. The action taken must then be reported to the Provincial
Government.

8. Accused may be sent to Medical Hospital in such cases.—This
provision enables ***[...] Court to send an accused person direct to a Mental
Hospital, instead of awaiting the orders of the Provincial Government, as was
formerly necessary. But if an order is made for the detention of the accused in a
Mental Hospital, this order must be in accordance with any rules which the Provincial
Government may have made under the Lunacy Act, 1912.

*[9. Proceedings under sections 464-466 can be taken only when a
prima facie case is made out by prosecution evidence.- Before action is taken
under section 466 of the Code the case of the prosecution should be gone into in
order to discover whether any prima facie case is made out against the accused
person].

10. Resumption of proceedings under section 467.—When an enquiry
**[or trial] has been postponed under sections 464 or 465, the Magistrate or Court
may at any time call for the accused ***[...] and resume proceedings under section
467. Such action will ordinarily be taken after a reasonable period in all cases when
the accused has been released on security.


--- Page 384 ---
112

1. Patients certified by Mental Hospital to be fit to make their
defence.—If, however, the accused has been detained in a Mental Hospital, the
accused will usually be returned by the authorities under section 473, as soon as he
is certified to be capable of making his defence. The practice in the Punjab Mental
Hospital is for patients to be brought before the visitors’ committee at the half-yearly
inspection, and if the Medical superintendent considers that any person is capable of
making his defence and of understanding the proceedings against him, he
recommends that he should be put up for trial. If this recommendation is accepted by
the committee, the patient is then sent back for trial.

12. Orders of Magistrate for detention may be varied by
Government.—It should be noted that the orders of a Magistrate or Court for the
detention of a Criminal lunatic may be varied by the Provincial Government—

*[() ona report by the Commission under section 474;0r]

(ii) on an application by a friend or relative under section 475.]

13. Procedure when the accused is of sound mind at the time of trial
but was not so at the time of committing the offence.—A second class of cases
arises when an accused person appears to be of sound mind at the time of ***[...]
trial, but there is reason to believe that he was of unsound mind at the time of
committing the offence with which he is charged. In such cases the Magistrate must
proceed to determine the facts with reference to section 84 of the Pakistan Penal
Code.

*[14. Detto.—If the Magistrate of Court finds reason to believe that the
accused committed an act, while he was of unsound mind, which, but for such
unsoundness, would be an offence, the Magistrate should proceed with the case.

15. If accused is acquitted on the pleas of insanity he be releases.- If
the plea is accepted, and the accused is acquitted on the ground that although he
committed an act which would have constituted an offence if he had been of sound
mind, he was insane at the time of committing it, the Court cannot order his release,
but must order him to be detained in safe custody in such place and manner as the
Magistrate or Court thinks fit and shall report the action taken to the Provincial
Government (section 471 of the Code).


--- Page 385 ---
113

Final orders for the release or detention of a person detained under sections
466 or 471 of the Code will be made by the Provincial Government in the manner
prescribed in section 474 of the Code.]

16. Superintendent Jail to keep the prisoner under observation and
to report the result thereof.—In all cases in which insanity is pleaded or set up as a
defence, the Superintendent of the Jail in which the convict is confined should be
directed to keep the prisoner under observation and to report the result thereof to the
High Court before the date fixed for hearing in that Court.


--- Page 386 ---
114
PART C.— CRIMINAL LUNATIC-- DETENTION.

1. Medical history sheet to be sent to Government.— The
accompanying form (Printed at the end of Chapter 17-C as an Appendix) has been
prescribed by the Provincial Government for all cases in which the papers of a
criminal lunatic are sent to it for orders. Unless this for is completed, it is impossible
to arrive at any safe decision regarding the period for which it will be necessary to
detain him.

2. Same should be sent to Mental Hospital.—The same form should
invariably be used when a criminal lunatic is sent direct to a Mental Hospital by a
Magistrate or Court. ***[...]

3. Memo of principles to be observed in dealing with the cases of
criminal lunatics.—Attention is called to the following memorandum, embodying the
views of certain experts as to the principles which should apply generally in dealing
with the cases of criminal lunatics. This memorandum is only intended to indicate
broadly the action which may ordinarily be taken. The case of every criminal lunatic
should be considered separately and dealt with on its own merits, and if *[in] any
case the opinion of the officers responsible for advice regarding it is that the
principles embodied in the memorandum do not apply, the action recommended
should be that which the special circumstances of the case suggest to the experience
of the officers concerned as the most appropriate.

|.— RECOVERED CRIMINAL LUNATICS

1) Crime.—Offences against the person. Intoxicating drugs. Type-
Acute or chronic mania.—If the crime be against the person, the cause, the use of
intoxicating drugs, and the type of insanity, acute or chronic mania, a period of three
years should be spent in an asylum free from all signs of insanity before any action is
taken.

2) Crime.—Offences against the person. Cause.—Other than
intoxicating drugs. Type.—Acute or chronic mania.—If the crime be an offence
against the person, the type of insanity, acute or chronic mania, and the alleged
cause not the use of intoxicating drugs, a period of at least four years of


--- Page 387 ---
115
complete freedom from insanity should be spent in an asylum before action is taken.

3) Crime.—Not an offence against the person, but where mental
attitude is aggressive. Type.—Acute or chronic mania.—If the crime be not an
offence against the person, but the lunatic has at any time exhibited dangerous or
violent tendencies, a period of at least four years should be spent in an asylum
before any recommendation is made for his transfer to jail or for his release.

(4) Crime.—Not an offence against the person, or, if so, trivial in its
nature mental attitude not aggressive.—lIf the crime be not an offence against the
person and there is no history that the lunatic was at any time aggressive, he may
generally be treated ***[...] as if he were a non-criminal lunatic. The Provincial
Government will generally be guided in such cases by the recommendations of the
Visitors and of the Superintendent of the Asylum in which the lunatic is confined.

(5) Crime.—Murder. Type.—Melancholia.—If the crime be murder and
the type of insanity be melancholia, a period of at least six years complete freedom
from insanity should be passed in an asylum before action is taken.

(5) (a) If the crime be one against the person, and the lunatic has been
originally confined in the asylum under the provisions of section 466 *[of the] Code of
Criminal Procedure and has subsequently sufficiently recovered to stand his trial and
has been acquitted under section 470 of the Code, it will be necessary that the
lunatic shall be sent back to the asylum to undergo the same period of complete
freedom from insanity in accordance with the above rules before a recommendation
by te visitors can be made for the lunatics release.

(6) Crime—Attempted suicide. Type.—Melancholia.—If the crime be
attempt to commit suicide, the type melancholia and if the lunatic has not exhibited
any violent tendencies while under observation, some relaxations of the rules may be
permitted according to circumstances, age, period of detention, *[etc.]


--- Page 388 ---
116
1L.-- UNRECOVERED CRIMINAL LUNATICS.

(7) Crime.-- Offences against a person. Type.-- Chronic mania of
irritable aggressive Kind.-- If the crime be an offence against a person, the
type chronic mania of the irritable aggressive Kind, it will seldom be possible to

release the lunatic during continuance of insanity except in advanced age and on
exceptional security, 3

8) Crime.-- Offences not against a person, or of trivial nature.
Type.-- Mental attitude not aggressive.-- If the crime be not an offence
against the person. or. if an offence against the person, of trivial nature and the
lunatic has never exhibited agaressive symptoms, he may generally be treated
***[...] as if he were a non-criminal lunatic and the Provincial Government
dealing with his case under section 474 of the Criminal Procedure Code, will
be guided mainly by the recorded opinion of the Superintendent of the Asylum
as to the propriety of releasing him, and by the recommendations of the ©
Visitors. i

4, [Omitted]. 3

APPENDIX
Form No, 155. :
Medical History Sheet of Lunatics.

N. B.-- The ultimate responsibility for the preparation of this form rests
with the committing officer who must see that the requisite information is id
supplied by the Police and the Medical Officer without undue delay.

QUESTIONS TO BE ANSWERED BY POLICE ALONE 4

71 Name of patient in full, and caste, or race. :

2: Name of patient's father. i

3. Sex and age of patient. :

4. Marks whereby the patient may be identified.

5. Married or single or widowed. 1

6. Condition of life and previous occupation (if any) 4

7. Religion.


--- Page 389 ---
117
8. Place of birth and recent place of abode.”
9. Whether homeless or living with relatives. **
10. Pervious history and habits. #
11. Whether any member of patient's family has been or is affected
with insanity.

12. Whether the attack is the first attack of insanity or not
13. Age (if known) at outset of first attack.
14. Duration and nature of any previous attacks.
15. Supposed cause of insanity **
16. Supposed exciting cause of present attack.”

QUESTIONS TO BE ANSWERED BY POLICE: AND MEDICAL OFFICER.
1. Duration of existing attack
2 Whether suicidal.
3 Whether dangerous to others

QUESTIONS TO BE ANSWERED BY MEDICAL OFFICER ALONE

Le State of bodily health."
2 Symptoms exhibited.
Bz Whether subject to epilepsy or any other disease.

bo Hens the name nt village. police station and district and length of residence shinuld he stated

55 This bending should show the mumes and addresses of the relatives or person legally Bound to mamtun he
Tunatic 111 any) wid whether they are able and willing tw take charge of him or 0 hear the cost af his maintenance:
in the asim and, if aot. why fot.

% Io this the mode of fife the patient led. history of any partcular ness which may have helped to produce fis
condition af mind, his temperment ar any habit af taking or smokimg any drug of any ground fue supposing
that the insanity is heredtary. should be mentioned. in the Case of ceinunal lunatics, also the nature of the come.
the derailed circumstances under which it was comantied, how be came to be arrested by the Police and the
section under which the lunatic was charged and the result of trial. in addon to other particulars wich may he
available.

#4. Stue here whether he is addicted © any rie or drugs. and. of su. for how long he las been so addicted and
Sehat is the quantity habitually taken, Whether lie is 4 member of any particular religious or political secrety

0. Under this heading should be stated wheter the lunatic suffered fram loss of propery. loss of relatives.
domestic trgble. af ill-health immediately before the attack

433 In glus the general health of the patient as well as any abnosmality of feature or development should be entered
It is desirable that special mention be made as to whether the pateat is ar 1 aot suifering from any tubercular
disease.


--- Page 390 ---
118
PART D.— NON-CRIMINAL LUNATIC.

1. Reception order when passed.—Reception orders are dealt with in
Chapter Il of the Lunacy Act, 1912. The most important provisions relate to-

(a) reception orders passed on a petition;

(b) reception orders passed n a Police report or information otherwise
received by a Magistrate.

2. Who may pass reception order.—Such orders may be passed by a
District Magistrate, a Sub-Divisional Magistrate, or a Magistrate of the 1% Class
specially empowered in this behalf by the Provincial Government.

3. Reception orders on petition.—Reception orders passed on a
petition are dealt with in sections 5 to 11. The most important provisions to be noted
by Magistrates are—

(a) the petition should be presented by a relative; if not, reasons must be

given.

(b) there must be two medical certificates, on separate sheets of paper, one of
which must be from a gazetted Medical Officer of Government (unless any
other Medical practitioner has been specially declared competent).

(c) if the lunatic is not dangerous or unfit to be at large, no order may be passed,
unless it has been ascertained that the Mental Hospital is willing to receive
him, and some person undertakes to pay for his cost of maintenance.

4. Reception orders passed otherwise.—Section 13 to 16 deal with
orders passed otherwise than on petition. Such orders may be passed on the ground
that person presented is —

(a) dangerous by reason of lunacy;

(b) not under proper care and control; or

(c) cruelly treated or neglected by any relative or other person having charge

of him.

Reports under (a) may be presented only by the Police. Information under (b)
and (c) may be given by the Police or any other person.

5. Period of detention for medical examination.—Section 16
*[empowers] the Magistrate to order detention up to ten days to enable


--- Page 391 ---
119
observation by a Medical Officer. If further time is required, there must be a fresh
order, in the same way as with remands; but the total period of detention must not
exceed thirty days from the date on which the person has first been brought before
the Magistrate.

6. Copy of reception order to be sent to Mental Hospital.—A certified
copy of every reception order must be sent to the Medical Superintendent of the
Mental Hospital.

7. Questions to be put to medical witnesses in case of suspected
insanity.—For questions which may suitably be put to a medical witness in case of
persons suspected of insanity, see Chapter 18, “Medico-Legal Work” Part D,
Appendix B, VIII.

8. Inquiry as to the domicile of the lunatic,-- A Magistrate making a
reception order under section 14 or 15 of the Act, shall, after ascertaining that
accommodation is available, direct the reception of the lunatic into the Punjab Mental
Hospital, Lahore. He shall, in all cases, make strict inquiry as to the domicile of the
lunatic, and shall see that entry to that effect is made in the medical history sheet
(Form 9, page XLVI, in the Appendices to the Punjab Mental Hospital Manual) or is
communicated as soon as possible to the Medical Superintendent of the Hospital in
which the lunatic is to be admitted.

9. Admission of a lunatic in the Mental Hospital in another
province.—A Magistrate cannot authorize the admission of a lunatic under sections
511 of the Act into a Mental Hospital in another province, except under a general or
special order of the Provincial Government made in this behalf (section 85 of the
Act). In all such cases he shall first satisfy himself that accommodation is available,
and that the cost of maintenance will be paid (section 11). In order to effect the
earliest possible treatment of the patient action shall be taken as soon as possible
and the Magistrate shall furnish to Government in writing full details as to domicile,
reasons for the admission, fees agreed to, etc.

10. Action to be taken on subsequent discovery of the domicile of
the lunatic in another province.—As soon as it is known that a lunatic, who has
been admitted to the Punjab Mental Hospital, is domiciled elsewhere than in


--- Page 392 ---
120
the Punjab, the fact (with details of the case) should be brought to the notice of the
Provincial Government, so that action for the removal of the lulatic may, if advisable,
be initiated early with the Government of the Province of domicile under section 35 of
the Act.

1". Documents to be sent when lunatic is to be admitted to Mental
Hospital. —No patient can be admitted to the Punjab Mental Hospital unless
accompanied by the following documents;-

(a) In the case of patients admitted under sections 13 to 16 of the Lunacy
Act, (IV of 1912), a Detention Order authorizing his detention for observation for a
period of not exceeding 10 days, a Police report, and a statement of
particulars***[...].

(b) In the case of a patient who has been kept under *[observation] at a
Jail or Civil Dispensary prior to admission to the Punjab Mental Hospital the following
documents are necessary;-

(i) Copy or the original order for detention.

(ii) Medical Certificate of observing Medical Officer.

(iii) Final Reception Order bearing the seal of the court, and dated with

seven clear days of the Medical Certificate.

(iv) Police report or statement of particulars.

(v) In the case of patients who have not been admitted within 14 clear

days of the Medical Certificate, a certificate should be sent stating the

reasons and where the patient has been confined pending his removal to the

Mental Hospital.

(c) In the case of patients admitted under sections 5 to 11 of the Lunacy

Act;-

(i) Two medical certificates, dated not more than 7 clear days before.

(ii) Application of relatives or friends and statement of particulars.

(iii) Reception order bearing the seal of the court.

Note;- Patients must be admitted within 14 days of the date of the Medical

Certificate, -vide Punjab Government letter No. 396-A (Home-jails) dated the 26"

September, 1914. Committing Magistrates are further referred to Punjab


--- Page 393 ---
121
Government letter No. 17652-Medical, dated the 31° May, 1928, and are informed
that, in accordance with the orders contained in paragraph 11 above, it will be
necessary to report to Government all instances in which Committing Magistrates fail
to comply with the provisions of the Lunacy Act, 1912, which have been summarized
in this order.


--- Page 394 ---
122
PART E.— RECOVERY OF MAINTENANCE
CHARGES OF PATIENTS ADMITTED IN THE
PUNJAB MENTAL HOSPITAL.....***[Omitted]


--- Page 395 ---
123
CHAPTER 18
MEDICO-LEGAL WORK
PART A — POST-MORTEM EXAMINATIONS.

1. Effect of decomposition.—The questions to be determined by a
post-mortem examination vary in different cases, and possibility of determining them
effectually is not in every case equally dependent on the stage which the process of
putrefaction has reached.

Thus, in death from drowning, strangulation and various diseases, questions
respecting the appearance of flesh tissues, and the amount of blood in parts require
to be considered, and these can only be determined soon after death, and before
putrefaction has made much progress.

But it would be quite possible to determine the existence or absence of a
wound or severe bruises of soft parts, even *[if] decomposition were considerably
advanced: and injuries of bones, pregnancy, presence of foreign bodies, metallic
poisoning, and some profound organic diseases, are ascertainable long after death.

2. Duty of Medical Officer to conduct post-mortem examination
when nothing is known about causes.—In each case, the circumstances, so far as
they are known, respecting the death and the discovery of the body, which are
communicated by the Police, will enable the Medical officer to form an opinion as to
whether it would be possible by a post-mortem examination to throw any light on the
cause of death; and wherever such possibility exists, or whenever nothing is known,
it is his duty to make as full an examination as possible.

3. Examination of body when advisable for examination.—These
considerations should guide a Magistrate in determining on the propriety or otherwise
of exerting the power given to him by law of ordering the exhumation of a body. In
cases of doubt the Magistrate should, if possible, consult a medical officer before
passing such an order.

4. ***[Omitted].

5. ***[Omitted].


--- Page 396 ---
124
6. Rules about the deposition of medical witnesses and reports of
Chemical Examiners.—Attention is invited to the special rules of evidence regarding
the depositions of medical witnesses and the reports of Chemical Examiners
contained in sections 509 and 510 of the Code of Criminal Procedure.


--- Page 397 ---
125
PART B - REFERENCES TO THE CHEMICAL EXAMINER.

1. Medical Officer to be consulted about articles to be sent to
Chemical Examiner.—(i) The question as to whether any, and, if so, what articles
should be sent for chemical analysis, and the transmission of such articles to the
Chemical Examiner will rest ordinarily with the Medical Officer *[concerned] who
should, however, attend to any requisition made by the Magistrate or the Police in
this matter.

(ii) In certain cases Police may send articles direct.—In cases where
human subjects are not concerned the Police may send articles to, and correspond
direct with, the Chemical Examiner.

(iii) All Magistrates are at liberty to forward any articles connected with
any Criminal Case before them to the Chemical Examiner, but the desirability of their
consulting the Civil Surgeon or other Medical Officer before doing so is obvious.

Every thing upon which the Chemical Examiner's opinion is necessary,
should be forwarded to him with the least possible delay.

2 ***[Omitted].

3. Statement to accompany articles sent.—Whenever any article is
sent to the Chemical Examiner, whether by a Magistrate, Medical officer or the
Police, it should be accompanied by a statement containing all possible information
that may serve to guide the Chemical Examiner in his investigation.

4. Mode of packing of articles to be sent.—All articles should be
forwarded in separate bottles, the stomach | one, its contents in another, the liver in a
third, dry particles in small phials, and when any articles liable to decomposition are
sent, they should always, whether the season be hot or cold, be immersed in
methylated spirits, which should be used in the proportion of one third of the bulk of
the articles.

The cork of each bottle should be tied down and sealed, and each bottle
should be numbered. To ascertain that it has been securely closed, the bottle should
be placed for some minutes with its mouth down.


--- Page 398 ---
126

5. Weight of articles sent to be noted.—The weight of each article
sent, and, where the portion of an organ is sent, the weight of the whole organ, as
well as of the part sent, and in the case of fluids, the total quantity of the fluid and the
quantity sent, should be stated on a ticket attached to the bottle, and also in the letter
of invoice *[hereinafter prescribed.]

6. Precautions in packing bottles.—(i) The several bottles containing
the articles sent should be enclosed in a tin or wooden box, which should be
enclosed in a tin or wooden box which should be large enough to allow of a layer of
raw cotton, at least three-fourths of a inch thick, being put between the bottle and the
box; the box should be securely fastened and covered with wax-cloth.

(ii) In cases where any of the contents of the bottles might prove
offensive, the box must be of tin, and Macdougall's powder or charcoal should be
dusted between the box and wax-cloth.

7. Articles to be packed and sealed in the presence of the
forwarding officer—All articles on being put up by the forwarding officer, and
sealed and numbered by him, should be packed in his presence and under his
immediate supervision, and the package should then be sealed by him, in
accordance with the usual rules of the Post Office as to parcels, in such a manner
that it cannot be opened without destroying the seal. The seal used should be a
private seal, and the same throughout.

8. Invoice of articles and post-mortem report or statement to
accompany articles.—In all cases of transmission of articles to the Chemical
Examiner, whether by a Magistrate, Medical Officer, or the Police, a letter of invoice,
giving a full description of the articles sent, should be dispatched by post, together
with the statement or postmortem report. A duplicate of the invoice should also be
placed between the wax-cloth and the box to accompany the package. Both copies
of the invoice should be stamped with an impression of the seal referred to *[above.]
The Chemical Examiner should be requested to return, if possible, any articles sent
to him for examination which is likely to be required at the trial.

9. Evidence should be taken to prove that Chemical Examiner's
report refers to the subject connected with the inquiry.—In inquiries or


--- Page 399 ---
127

trials, where reference has been made to the Chemical Examiner, it will be the duty
of the Magistrate to examine the official who dispatched the **[articles] for analysis
with regard to the identity of the invoice and seal, and thereby establish the identity of
the subjects reported on with those sent for analysis, and prove that the Chemical
Examiner's report refers to the subject connected with the case under inquiry. If the
decision of the case turns on the results of the Chemical Examination, a copy of the
judgment, and of the evidence regarding symptoms and postmortem appearance, will
be supplied to the Chemical Examiner; such copies being made at the expense of
Government as a special charge.

10. Identity of body to be proved.—In all cases of homicide, where the

body is found, the identity of the body with the person said to be deceased must be
fully established before the *[Court] trying or inquiring into the case.
In such cases, where there has been a postmortem examination, evidence must be
recorded by the *[Court] to prove the custody of the body of the deceased after
death, and its delivery for the purpose of post-mortem examination to the medical
officer.

11. Proper custody of articles to be proved.—In all cases in which
articles are brought up in evidence, the custody of such articles, throughout the
various stages of the inquiry must be clearly traced and established. Evidence must
be recorded on this point, and the evidence should never leave it doubtful as to what
person or persons have had charge of the articles at any stage of the proceedings.
All such articles must be distinctively marked, and any reference to them in the
record must be so clear as to leave noO room for doubt as to the special articles
referred to.

12. Evidence of non-professional witnesses re blood and human hair
should be accepted with caution.-- ***[...] The evidence of non-professional
witnesses on the subject of blood and of human hair must be accepted with the
utmost caution, and where the case rests materially on the proof of such matters, the
evidence of a professional witness must be taken, and reference made, if necessary,
to the Chemical Examiner.

13. ***[Omitted].


--- Page 400 ---
128
PART C — RULES FOR THE GUIDANCE OF POLICE OFFICERS
REGARDING THE SUBMISSION OF BLOOD-STAIN CASES TO THE
SEROLOGIST, TO GOVERNMENT OF PAKISTAN ISLAMABAD.

*[1.  Serologist appointed to distinguish human blood from other
blood.- For the whole of Pakistan the Government of Pakistan has appointed a
Serologist at Islamabad to carry on the medico-legal work of distinguishing human
blood from other blood. This officer has been designated as the Serologist to
Government of Pakistan’.]

2. Articles to be sent to Chemical Examiner and when.—As it would
not be possible for the *[Government]Serologist to cope with his work expeditiously if
all articles suspected of having blood stains were sent direct to him, it has been
decided to issue the following instructions for the guidance of Police officers in
dealing with blood-stained articles:

(a) Cases in which articles shall be sent to Chemical Examiner, Lahore.—
In cases in which the evidence of the blood-stained articles, is, relatively to the whole
body of the evidence of small importance, the articles shall be sent direct to the
Chemical Examiner at Lahore for examination.

(b) In cases where blood stained articles form important piece of evidence
the Chemical Examiner will select articles to be sent to the Serologist.—In cases in
which the establishment of the fact that blood-stains are of human blood, as distinct
from the general classification of “* Mammalian”, is material to the prosecution and
has a really important bearing on the case, the blood-stained articles, shall be sent
direct to the Chemical Examiner **[to Government], who will determine which of such
articles he will forward to the *[Government] serologist with the necessary sketches,
etc. In sending articles for the serologist test, the Superintendent of Police shall
specifically ask for examination to test the source of the blood. The *[Government]
Serologist will, after examining the articles sent to him by the Chemical Examiner
**[to Government], return them with a copy of his report direct to the Superintendent
of Police concerned.


--- Page 401 ---
129

(c) In some cases only stained portion of the articles may be sent.—In
cases of articles of blood-stained clothing, etc., the stained portion only should be cut
out and forwarded for determination of the source of the blood. In the case of
weapons and other solid articles the entire articles should be sent.

(d) Medico-legal history of the case should be sent along-with the
articles.—All articles sent should be accompanied by a complete medico-legal history
of the case.

(e) Articles to be sent direct only, under the order of Police
Superintendent.—No articles should be forwar4ded direct except under the express
orders of the Superintendent of Police.

Note:- (1) As vegetable poisons cannot be detected in ashes it
has accordingly been held useless to forward such poisons to the
Chemical Examiner for detection.—vide Punjab Government letter No.
16781-Medl, dated 5" June, 1923.

2) ***[Omitted].


--- Page 402 ---
130
PART D - General.............**[Omitted]


--- Page 403 ---
131
CHAPTER 19
SENTENCES
PART A —- GENERAL

1. The award of suitable sentence depends on a variety of
considerations.—The determination of appropriate punishment after the conviction
of a offender is often a question of great difficulty and always requires careful
consideration. The law prescribes the nature and the limit of the punishment
permissible for an offence, but the Court has to determine in each case a sentence
suited to the offence and the offender. The maximum punishment prescribed by the
law for any offence is intended for the gravest of its kind and it is rarely necessary in
practice to go up to the maximum. The measure of punishment in any particular
instance depends upon a variety of considerations such as the motive for the crime,
its gravity, the character of the offender, his age, antecedents and other extenuating
or aggravating circumstances, such as sudden temptation, previous convictions, and
so forth, which have all to be carefully weighed by the Court in passing the sentence.

*[2. Various kinds of punishments, Minimum and enhanced
punishments prescribed in different cases.- The Pakistan Penal Code permits
(vide section 53) the following classes of punishments viz. fine, forfeiture of property
imprisonment, rigorous or simple, imprisonment for life and death. The Whipping Act,
1909, permits whipping to be imposed in lieu of or in addition to the punishments
prescribed for certain specified offences under the Pakistan Penal Code as well as
under other Acts. The Reformatory Schools Act, 1897, provides for “youthful
offenders” i.e. offenders below the age of 15) sentenced to imprisonment being
detained in a Reformatory School instead of being sent to jail. The Prohibition of
offenders Ordinance, 1960 enables the Court to release offenders in certain cases
after taking a bond for good behavior or in trivial cases even with a mere admonition.
On the other hand there are certain offences for which a minimum punishment is
prescribed (see e.g., section 397 Pakistan Penal Code), and the Court cannot pass a
lesser sentence on a person convicted of such an offence. Section 75 of the Pakistan
Penal Code makes a previous convict liable to enhanced punishment in the case


--- Page 404 ---
132
of certain offences. There are also other Acts of the Legislature e.g; the Punjab
Excise Act), which lay down an enhanced penalty for repetition of an offence.

In certain cases, the Court can take action when passing the sentence to
ensure good behaviour on the part of a convict on his release from jail. In the case of
a person convicted of an offence involving a breach of the peace, the court can order
him to execute a bond for keeping peace for a period up to three years (section 106,
of the Code of Criminal Procedure).

3. Limits of the sentences which different classes of Magistrates
can impose.- In passing sentences, the Court has not only to bear in mind the
nature and the limits of the punishment prescribed for the offence of which the
accused is found guilty, but also the nature and the limit of the punishment which it is
empowered to impose. Section 31 to 35 of the Code of Criminal Procedure lay down
the limits of the sentences which different classes of Courts are empowered to
impose. Magistrates of the 2" and 3" class are not empowered to pass a sentence
of whipping.

4. Procedure when Magistrate thinks that the accused should
receive greater punishment than he can award.- Whenever a Magistrate of the 2
or 3“ class having jurisdiction is of the opinion after hearing the evidence for the
prosecution and the accused that an offender should receive a punishment different
in kind from or more severe than, that which such Magistrate is empowered to inflict,
or that he out to be3 required to execute a bond under section 106 of the Code he
should take action under section 349 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, record the
opinion and submit his proceedings, and forward the accused to a Magistrate of the
1% Class specially empowered in this behalf by the Provincial Government. Similarly
when a Magistrate of the 1% Class is of opinion that an offender owing to previous
convictions or other circumstances deserves a more severe sentence than what he
can inflict, he should report the case to the Sessions Judge with a view to have it
transferred to a Magistrate empowered under section 30 of the Code of Criminal
Procedure or should send the case to the Court of Session if the case is serious
enough to justify that course. (See sections 346 and 347 of the Code. See also
chapter 23 of these Rules)].


--- Page 405 ---
133

5. Limitation imposed by Section 71, Pakistan Penal Code and
section 35, Criminal Procedure Code. Sentences in cases of accused convicted
of several offences. Concurrent sentences; Recommendation to Government
for remission or commutation of punishment .- Where a persona is convicted of a
an offence which is made up of parts each of which constituted an offence or when a
person is convicted of more offences than one, the limitations imposed by section 71
of Pakistan Penal Code, and section 35 **[of the] Code of Criminal Procedure, must
be adhered to. When a person is convicted of more than one offences, the Court
should be careful to pass a separate sentence for each offence, so that if the
conviction is set aide on appeal with respect to one of the offences, there will be no
room for doubt as to the sentences passed with respect to the rest. The Court has a
discretion to make such sentences run concurrently, and this discretion should be
exercised so as to make the effective sentence proportionate to the gravity of the
offences. Under Section 397 of the Criminal Procedure Code ***[...] the Court has
***[...] power to order, in the case of an accused person, who is already undergoing
imprisonment for another offences, that s subsequent sentence of imprisonment
passed on him shall take effect at one and run concurrently with the sentence he is
undergoing.

It happens that times that a sentence which a Judge or Magistrate can pass
under the law is unsuitable in view of all the circumstances of the case. In such cases
all that can be done is to make a recommendation to the Provincial Government to
take action under sections 401 and 402 of the Criminal Procedure Code. When a
Sessions Judge or a Magistrate passing a sentence wishes a case to be brought to
the notice of the Provincial Government for remission or communication of the
punishment, he should submit the recommendation with his proceedings through the
High Court; otherwise the High Court may hear in appeal a case in which
Government has remitted *[or] commuted punishment, without knowing of such
remission or communication.


--- Page 406 ---
134
PART B. — FINE.

Fine should be in proportion to the means of the offender.- This is the
lightest form of punishment which a Criminal Court can impose, but care should
always be taken to see that the fine is not excessive with reference to the means of
the offender. Indiscriminate imposition of fines without due regard to the capacity of
the convict to pay it only results in waste of time of the Courts and the Police in
attempting to realise it, and harassment to the convicted and his dependants. Courts
are empowered to impose imprisonment is default of payment of fine, but such
imprisonment can only be awarded subject to the limitations prescribed in section 64
to 67 of the Pakistan Penal Code.


--- Page 407 ---
135
Part C. — IMPRISONMENT

1. Kinds of imprisonment and their selection. — The Pakistan Penal
Code provides for imprisonment of two kinds. Viz. simple and rigorous, and the Court
must choose one or the other form in view of all the circumstances. In certain local
and special Acts, it will be found that the Legislature has not specified the kind of
imprisonment which may be awarded. Under Section 3(26) of the General Clauses
Act, such imprisonment may be simple or rigorous. In the case of may offences
under Pakistan Penal Code and other Acts, it is provided that the offender shall be
punished with imprisonment up to a certain term and shall also be liable to fine. In
such cases the offender must be sentences to some period of imprisonment
(however small), but it is not obligatory to impose fine in addition. *[(See PLD 1978
SC 89)].

2. When simple imprisonment is suitable.-- Simple imprisonment is
suitable where a fine will not suffice and a very short term of imprisonment has to be
imposed. This ensures casual offenders being kept apart from the contamination of
hardened criminals.

3. When solitary confinement is suitable.—- The Pakistan Penal Code
provide for “solitary conferment” being awarded up to a certain limit (vide section 73).
This form of punishment is appropriate in the case of the more heinous class of
offences. It should be borne in mind, however, that solitary conferment can be
awarded in the case of offences under the Pakistan Penal Code only and not in the
case of offences under Special or Local Acts **[unless these Acts so provide.]


--- Page 408 ---
136
PART D. —- WHIPPING

*[1. Cases in which whipping not permissible. -- Under the Code of
Criminal Procedure, the punishment of whipping cannot be awarded in addition to
imprisonment when the term of imprisonment is less than three months; nor can it be
imposed nit he cases of females, or in the case of males sentences to death,
imprisonment for life or rigorous imprisonment for over five years, or males whom the
court considers to be more than forty five years of age. The number of stripes must
not exceed fifteen | the case of persons under sixteen and thirty in the case of others
(vide sections 391-393 of the Code of the Criminal Procedure).

In cases under the Offence of Zina (Enforcement of Hadood) Ordinance,
1979, the Prohibition (Enforcement of Hadd) Order, 1979 and Offence of Qazf
(Enforcement of Hadd) Ordinance, 1979, the above mentioned provisions must be
read subject to the modifications made by the said Laws.]

2. [Omitted]


--- Page 409 ---
137
PART E. — DETENTION IN A REFORMATORY
SCHOOL....... ***[OMITTED].


--- Page 410 ---
138
PART F. - TRANSPORTATION....... ***[OMITTED].


--- Page 411 ---
139
PART G. -- PENAL SERVITUDE....... ***[OMITTED].


--- Page 412 ---
140
PART H. -- DEATH SENTENCES
1. Reasons for awarding lesser sentence should be recorded when
the offences is punishable with death.—When an offence is punishable with
death, but the Court inflicts a lesser penalty permitted by law the Court must state in
the judgment its reasons for doing so.
2. Instructions to be observed by courts passing death sentence.—
When a convict is sentenced to death by a Court of Session, it must-
(i) direct by its sentence that he be hanged by the neck till he is dead;
(ii) submit is proceedings to the High Court for confirmation of the
sentence; and
(iii) inform the convict of the period within which he must appeal if he
wished to do so.
APPENDIX ***[OMITTED]


--- Page 413 ---
141
CHAPTER 20
EXECUTION OF SENTENCES.
PART A. —- FINES
Realisation of fines. — For instructions regarding the realisation of fines,, see
volume IV, Chapter 11.


--- Page 414 ---
142
PART B. — WARRANTS FOR EXECUTION

1. ***[Omitted].

2 ***[Omitted].

3. Signature by means of a stamp not permissible. - (i) The code of
Criminal Procedure enacts that every warrant should be singed by the Magistrate
with his own hand, and the practice of affixing a signature by means of a stamp is
strictly prohibited and should never be resorted to. An officer is charge of a jail would
be justified in refusing to receive or detain a prisoner in jail on a warrant to which is
affixed a signature by means of stamp.

(ii). ~~ Warrants should be signed, sealed and in the prescribed form.--
Warrants of commitments should be in the form prescribed by Schedule V to the
Code of Criminal Procedure and should be singed in full (no initialed) by the Judge or
magistrate who issues it, and should be sealed with the seal of the Court.

(iii) Separate warrants for each person.-- In the case of under-trail
prisoners, the warrants of commitment for intermediate custody should be prepared
with the greatest care possible with reference t the above instructions. A separate
warrant should be issued in respect of each person committed to jail.

(iv) Superintendent of Jail should not refuse to admit a prisoner
owing to defect in the warrant.-- Except in case falling under clause (i) of this rule
the Superintendent of a Jail should not refuse to admit a person where the above
instructions have not been carried out, but he should draw the immediate attention of
the Magistrate concerned to the defect, and ask for its rectification at once, sending
at the same time a copy of his letter to the Magistrate of the district for his
information.

(v) Leper convicts to be sent to Mianwali Jail.-- Persons sentenced to
imprisonment, who are found to be suffering form leprosy in an aggravated form,
should in future be sent to the Mianwali Jail, where a special ward has been
constructed for such persons. ***[...]


--- Page 415 ---
143

(vi) Class of prisoner when other than C to be noted in the warrant.--
When a Court places a prisoner in a class other than C, it should make an
endorsement to this effect on the warrant of commitment.

**[Note: ‘Commitment’ used in this rule ahs nothing to do with ‘commitment

proceedings’.]

4. Warrants for release or remission of sentence.-- Warrant for the
release or remission of sentences of prisoners confined in jail, warrants for the
release of prisoners on bail, and intimations of payment of fine sent to jail authorities
should always be drawn up in Urdu or in English, and should be singed in full by such
officer and sealed with the seal of his Court.

On receipt of a warrant for the release of a prisoner it should be forwarded
without delay by registered cover to the jail in which the prisoner is confined, if it is
necessary to send it through the agency of the post.

5. ***[Omitted]

*[6. Rules about classification and treatment of convicted and under
trial prisoners.-- The following rules have been made under section 59 of the
Prisons Act, 1894, in Chapter 9 of the Pakistan Prisons Rules 1978, to regulate the
classification and treatment of convicted, under-trial and other prisoners:-

Chapter 9

“The classification and separation of prisoners.

Classes of Prisoners.

Rules 224.

A prisoner confined in prison may be:-

(i) a criminal prisoner; which includes:

(a) a convicted prisoner; and

(b) an un-convicted under trial prisoner;

(ii) a civil prisoner; or


--- Page 416 ---
144
(iii) a stet prisoner detained under Regulation Ill of 1818, or a person
ordered to be detained in prison without trial under any law relating to
the detention of such person.
Note: Lunatics may also be temporarily detained din persons under the order
of the Magistrate
Classification of convicted prisoners
Rule 225.
(i). Convicted prisoners shall be classified into:-
a. Superior class;
b. Ordinary class; and
c. Political class;

(ii). Superior class include A and B class prisoners. Ordinary class comprises of
prisoners other than superior class.

Political class comprises of prisoners who commit crimes not for personal
gain but for political motives. This class is not criminal and does not require
reformative or correctional treatment.

Casuals and habitual

Rule 226.

Convicted prisoners are classified into casual and habitual.

(i). Casuals are first offenders and who lapse into crime not because of a criminal
mentality but on account of their surroundings, physical disability or mental
deficiency.

(ii). Habitual are:-

a. Ordinary habitual prisoners; and

b. Professionals or repeaters.
Ordinary habitual prisoners are those who frequently lapse into their
surroundings or some physical or mental defects.


--- Page 417 ---
145
Professionals or repeaters are men with an object, sound in mind and
in body, competent, often highly skilled, who deliberately and with
open eyes prefer a life of crime and know all the tricks and
manoeuvres necessary for that life. They must be first offenders.
Classification of convicted prisoners according to age
Rule 227.
Convicted prisoners are further classified as under:-
(a) Juveniles under the age of 18.
(b) Adolescent over 18 to 21 years of age.
(c) Adults over the age of 21.
Nature of sentence
Rule 228.
There shall be two classes of convicted prisoners according to the nature of their
sentence, i.e.:-
(a) those undergoing rigorous imprisonment; and
(b) those undergoing simple imprisonment.
Classification of under-trial prisoners
Rule 229.
(a) Committed to Sessions
(b) Committed to other Courts.
Classification of women prisoners
Rule 230
Women prisoners will be classified in the same manner as is provided in the case of
males.


--- Page 418 ---
146
Separation of Prisoners
Rule 231.
Prisoners shall be kept separate as under.

i) In a prison containing men as well as women prisoners, the women shall
be imprisoned in a separate prison, or separate part of the same prison in
such manner as to prevent their seeing, conversing or holding any
communication with the male prisoners.

(ii) Under trial prisoners shall be kept separate from criminal prisoners.

(iii) ~~ Under trial prisoners shall be kept separate from convicted prisoners.

(iv) Civil prisoners shall be kept separate from criminal prisoners.

wv) Political prisoners shall be kept separate from all other prisoners.

Further provisions regarding separation

Rule 232.

Separation of the following prisoners shall, to the extent to which it can in each
prison be observed, be carried into effect:

i) Under trial prisoners who have been committed to Sessions, shall be kept
separate from under trial prisoners who have not been so committed and
those who have been previously convicted shall be kept separate from
those who have not been previously convicted.

(ii) Casual convicted prisoners shall be kept separate from habitual convicted
prisoners.

(iii) ~~ Simple imprisonment prisoners shall be kept separate from the rigorous
imprisonment prisoners.

(iv) ~~ Convicted prisoners who are under 16 years of age shall be kept separate
from convicted prisoners who are more than 16 years of age.


--- Page 419 ---
147

wv) Every habitual criminal shall, as far as possible be confined in a special
prison in which only habitual criminals are kept. The Inspector-General
may, however sanction the transfer to such special prison of any prisoner
not being a habitual prisoner whom for reasons to be recorded, the
Superintendent of the prison believes to be of so vicious and depraved a
character; as to make his association with other casual prisoners
undesirable. Prisoners so transferred shall not otherwise be subjected to
the special rules affecting the habitual criminals.

(vi) Political prisoners may be kept separate from each other, if deemed
necessary.

Exception to the rule regarding separation.

Rule 233.

When in any prison only one prisoner e4xists in any class and separation would

amount to solitary confinement, such prisoner, if he so desires, be permitted to

associate with prisoners of another class in such a manner so as not to infringe

the provi8sions of section 27 of the Prisons Act.

Association and Segregation of Prisoners

Rule 234.

Subject to the provisions of rule 231, convicted prisoners may be confined either

in association or individually in cells or partly in one way and partly in the other.

Segregation of under-trial prisoners

Rule 235.

Under trial prisoners may be confined separately in cells, when in the opinion of

the Superintendent, it is necessary in the interest of the prison discipline to do so,

or under the orders of the Inspector-General, or of Government.


--- Page 420 ---
148

Occupation of vacant cells

Rule 236.

Cells not in use for purposes of punishment or otherwise, shall be occupied by

the convicted prisoners for the purpose of separation subject to the following

conditions:-

(a) Juveniles shall in preference to any other class of prisoners be
confined in cells both by day and night.

(b) Prisoners convicted under section 366(A) 376 and 377 of the Pakistan
Penal Code, shall in preference to prisoners other than; placed in cells
both by day and night.

(c) Habitual prisoners shall be placed in cells both by day and night in
preference to casual prisoners.

Separation of habitual prisoners

Rule 237.

Habitual prisoners shall be subjected to the system of separation prescribed in

the proceeding rules in relation thereto.

Separation of casuals

Rule 238.

If at any time there are more cells in any prison than suffice for the separation of

all habitual prisoners of the casual class shall be confined in cells by night only in

rotation.

Procedure when separation by day is not feasible

Rule 239-A.

Convicted prisoner who would ordinarily come under the operation of any of the

preceding rules relating to the separation of prisoners, but cannot be confined in

a cell by day, by reason that he is required for some prison service shall be

confined in a cell by night.


--- Page 421 ---
149

Explanation- Separation under rules 235 to 239, is restricted merely to the
separation of individual prisoners for purpose of prison management; such
separation is not to have any irksome conditions attached to it.
Separation of prisoners to prevent the commission of any offence
Rule 240.
If in the opinion of the Superintendent, the presence of any prisoner in
association with others is detrimental to good order and discipline, and is likely to
encourage or lead to the commission of any offence, such prisoner may be kept
separate in a cell.
Separation to be as complete as possible
Rule 241.
Subject to the previsions of rule 233, the separation of the various classes of
prisoners shall be carried out to the fullest extent as far as possible. If there are
not a sufficient number of latrines, bathing rooms and feeding arrangements to
keep the classes completely apart such arrangement for separation as are under
the circumstance practicable shall be made.
Rule for the classification of prisoners into A, B and C Class
Rule 242.
i) Convicted shall be divided into three classes; A, B and C class. A

Class will contain all prisoners who are-

(a) casual prisoners of good character;

(b) by social status, education and habit of life have been accustomed
to the superior mode of living and,

(c) have not been convicted of offence involving elements of
cruelty, moral degradation, personal greed, serious
or premeditated violence, serious offence against property,
offences relating to the possession of explosives; firearms and
other dangerous weapons with object of committing


--- Page 422 ---
150
or enabling an offence to be committed and abetment or
incitement of offences falling within these sub-clauses.

(ii) Class “B” will consist of prisoners who by social status, education or
habit of life have been accustomed to superior mode of living. Habitual
prisoners can be included in this class by order the Government.

(iii) Class “C” will consist of prisoners who are not classified as A and B.

Classifying authority

Rule 243.

For A and B classes the classifying authority will be the Government. Courts may

classify prisoners into A and B class pending final order of the Government.

Class “C” will be classified by the trying Court, but such prisoner will have a right

to apply for revision to the Government. Petitions of revision will be forwarded by

the Superintendent to the Inspector General for transmission to Government.

Superintendent may award B class to convicted prisoners.

Rule 244.

In case convicting Courts omit to classify convicted prisoner for better class

treatment, Superintendent of prisons subject to the approval of Government, may

classify them as B class prisoners, provided that such prisoners appear to fulfil
the conditions prescribed for better class treatment.

Qualifications for A and B class

Rule 245.

The recommending authority shall invariably furnish to Government the following

details when recommending a prisoner to A or B class.

(a) Whether the prisoner is casual or habitual.

(b) Previous convictions if any.


--- Page 423 ---
151

(c) Offence and sentence.
(d) Social and financial status of family.
(e) Profession of the prisoner.
(f) Income of the Prisoner, if any.
(g) Academic qualifications of the prisoner.
If the statement of the prisoner on these points requires verification, further
enquiries should be made from the District Magistrate or any other source. The
recommending authority may either defer making any recommendations until it
has received the information asked for or may make the recommendations on the
materials available and state that the result of further enquiries will be submitted
when received.
Disagreement between the convicting Court and the District Magistrate.
Rule 246.
In case in which there is disagreement between the convicting Court and the
District Magistrate, as to the classification of any prisoner, the District Magistrate
shall decide the class in which a convicted prisoner shall be kept pending final
orders of the Government.
Condemned prisoners governed by these rules
Rule 247.
The above rules shall also apply to the prisoners under sentence of death.
Classification of under-trial prisoners
Rule 248.
(i) There shall be only two classes of under-trial prisoners-

(a) better class; and

(b) ordinary class.
(ii) Better class will include those under-trial prisoners who by social status,

education or habit of life, have been accustomed to a


--- Page 424 ---
152
superior mode of living and will correspond to A and B class of convicted
prisoners. Ordinary class will include all others and will correspond to C
class.

(iii) ~~ Those under trial prisoners who pass matriculation or higher examination
in 1% division during their class jail shall be allowed better class jail
facilities with effect from the date the result is announced.

(iv) Before an under trial prisoner is brought before a competent Court it will
be at the discretion of the Officer Incharge of the Police Station to properly
classify him. After he is brought before the Court, he will be classified by
that Court, subject to the approval of the District Magistrate.

Classification of political prisoners

Rule 249.

Classification of political prisoners will be determined by the authority ordering their
detention in prison.]


--- Page 425 ---
153
PART C—WHIPPING

Mode of infliction.—Sentence of whipping shall be executed by the infliction
of the punishment on the buttocks of the person sentenced, with a rattan in the usual
manner.

The rattan used should not be more than four feet in length and shall be half
an inch in diameter and in the case of juvenile offenders a still lighter cane shall be
employed. The triangle should be boarded on the side next the offender, so as to
prevent the possibility of the rattan curling round and touching the front or any other
part of his person than the breech.

In the case of persons under 16 years of age, whipping shall be inflicted on
the buttocks in the way of school discipline, with a rattan not more than half an inch in
diameter.

2. Flogging should be inflicted in private in the presence of a
medical officer, a thin cloth to be spread over the buttocks.—(i) All Judicial
floggings shall be inflicted in private, either at a jail, or in an enclosure near the court-
house.

(ii) Wherever it is possible to do so, Magistrates shall secure the presence of a
medical officer at the flogging.

(iii) The practice shall invariably be adopted of spreading a thing cloth soaked in
some anti-septic over the prisoner’s buttocks during the operation.

A pattern of the cloth used is supplied by the superintendent of the Central
Jail, Lahore, and the following is the manner in which it should be used. When the
prisoner to be shipped is laid on the triangle, his jangias should be slipped down
below the knees and the cloth put round the buttocks. The triangle belt keeps the
upper part of the cloth in its place, while the two pieces of tape are tied round the
thighs below.

3. Magistrate to certify that the prisoner is in a fit state of health. —
Magistrate who are empowered to pass sentences of whipping should, before the
sentence is carried into execution, be careful in every case to satisfy themselves that
the offender is in a fit state of health to undergo the punishment.


--- Page 426 ---
154
Whenever practicable, the opinion of a medical officer should be taken, but, if that is
not procurable, the Magistrate must himself certify in each case that he believes the
offender to be in a fit state to undergo the punishment.

4. Not to be inflicted until lapse of 15 days or until sentence is
confirmed on appeal.—Every sentence of whipping is now subject to appeal. When
an accused person sentenced to whipping only furnishes bail to the satisfaction of
the Court or when the punishment of whipping is combined with imprisonment,
section 391 of the Code of Criminal Procedure requires that the whipping is not to be
inflicted until after the expiry of fifteen days from the date of sentence, or if a appeal
be preferred, within that time, until the sentence is confirmed by the superior Court.

To secure effect being given to this provision of the Code the following rules
have been made by the High Court:-

(i) Filing of appeal should be notified to the Jail Superintendent.—In
all cases in which an appeal is preferred within fifteen days from the date on which a
sentence of whi8pping is passed, whether or not such appeal is preferred through the
jail authorities under a power attested in the Jail, immediate intimation of the fact of
the appeal shall be given to the Superintendent of the Jail in which the appellant is
confined.

Explanation:- An appeal presented to the Superintendent of the Jail within
fifteen days is made within the period contemplated in this rule.

(ii) Jail Superintendent may wait for such further time as is
necessary for communication from the appellate Court.—If no such intimation of
an appeal having been preferred is received within fifteen days, the Superintendent
of the Jail shall, nevertheless, allow such further time to elapse as is necessary for a
communication from the Appellate Court to reach elapse as is necessary for a
communication from the Appellate Court to reach him in the ordinary course of
business before inflicting the whipping.

(iii) Sessions Judge to decide for what further time the Jail
superintendent should wait.—Sessions Judges shall, in communication with
Magistrates of District and Superintendents of Jails, fix, for their own courts and the
Appellate Courts subordinate to them the number of days which shall be allowed
under the preceding rule.


--- Page 427 ---
155

(iv) Copy of order of whipping be given to accused.—In cases in which
a sentence of whipping is passed, a copy of the Court's order should be furnished to
the person affected as soon as possible after his application therefore.

5. Magistrate should ensure that sentence has been duly carried
out.—The following steps should be taken to ensure that sentences of whipping, not
combined with any other punishment, are duly carried into execution, where it is not
convenient that the whipping should be inflicted in the presence of the Magistrate
who passed the sentence. In such cases the Magistrate should issue a warrant under
section 390 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, setting the time and place at which
the sentence should be executed, and this warrant should be immediately returned to
the Magistrate who passed the sentence when the whipping has been inflicted or
execution of the sentence has been stayed under section 394 of the Code of Criminal
Procedure. Magistrates should carefully watch the return of this warrant, and, if
undue delay takes place, sho8ld inquire why it has not been returned.


--- Page 428 ---
156
PART D. -TRANSPORTATIONS ....**[Omitted]


--- Page 429 ---
157
PART E. -SENTENCE OF DEATH .

1. Order of High Court to be sent to Sessions Judge for carrying out
sentence.—After a death sentence has been confirmed or other order has been
made by the High Court, the Registrar will return the record, with a duplicate or an
attested copy of the order under the seal of the Court, to the Sessions Judge, who
will take the steps prescribed by section 381 of the Code of Criminal Procedure to
cause the sentence or order to be carried into effect.

***[Omitted]

2. ***[Omitted]


--- Page 430 ---
158

PARTF. -EXECUTION OF THE ORDERS OF CRIMINAL APPELLATE

COURTS AND COURTS OF REVISION.

The following rules, as to the mode of carrying out the ord4rs passed on
appeal or in revision by Criminal Courts, should be observed:

(i) High Court will certify its decision to Lower Court.—The High
Court will certify its decision to the Court from whose judgment the petition of appeal
or application for revision was preferred:

Provided that if such judgment was that of a Court subordinate to the
Magistrate of the district, the decision of the High Court will be certified to the
Magistrate of the district.

(ii) Lower Court will inform prisoner and the Jail Superintendent.—
The Court to which the decision is certified will, in cases of rejection of appeal or
confirmation of sentence, cause the appellant to be informed; and in cases of
alteration, reversal or enhancement of sentence, will issue a warrant accordingly to
the Superintendent of the Jail of the district in which the trial was held, or, if the
original sentence was one of fine only, to the person to whom the original warrant
was addressed.

Sessions Judges should not fail to communicate the High Court's orders in
Murder References and appeals to the convicts merely on the assumption that the
High Court will itself directly communicate the result to the convicts.

When a sentence of death is confirmed or passed by the High Court in appeal
or revision, the Sessions Judge, to whom the decision of the High Court is certified,
shall issue the warrant for the execution of sentence of death, to the Superintendent
of the Jail to which the prisoner was originally committed. If the condemned prisoner
has been or should be transferred to another jail, and the Superintendent to whom
the original warrant of commitment was addressed returns the warrant for the
execution of the sentence of death to the Sessions Judge with an intimation that the
prisoner has been transferred to another jail, the Sessions Judge shall issue a
revised warrant for the execution of the sentence of death to the Superintendent of
the jail in which the condemned prisoner is confined.

Note:- when a sentence of death has been suspended under Chapter XXIX of the

Code of Criminal Procedure, the passing of further orders regarding the


--- Page 431 ---
159

carrying out of such sentence is a matter for the Government ordering the suspension

and not for Sessions Judge.

(iii) Session Judge will at once inform Jail Superintendent dirct about
all orders of release or alteration or enhancement of sentence passed by
him.—The Sessions Court will in all cases in which its order on appeal requires the
immediate release of a prisoner, issue a warrant of release direct to Superintendent
of the Jail in which the prisoner is confined. The Superintendent of the Jail will, after
executing such warrant, forward it with the original warrant of commitment duly filled
up, to the Magistrate of the district in which the trial was held. If in any case the
warrants have not been received from the Superintendent of the Jail by the time the
records in the case are retuned by the Sessions Court, it will be the duty of the
Magistrate of the district to at once institute inquiries as to whether the prisoner has
been released, and, if necessary to issue his own warrant for the release of the
prisoner.

In cases of alteration, or enhancement of sentence, also the Sessions Court
will issue a warrant direct to the superintendent of the Jail in which the prisoner is
confined. In cases of rejection of appeal or confirmation of sentence, the sessions
court will certify its decision on appeal to the Magistrate of the district in which the
trial was held, who will cause the appellant to be informed. When an appeal is
rejected the Superintendent of the Jail in which the prisoner is confined should also
be informed direct by the Appellate Court.

Note: ***[Omitted].

(iv) Prisoners not to be transferred from the jail until decision of
appeal. Exceptions.—The Magistrate of the district will, in communication with the
Superintendent of the jail, arrange that no prisoner is removed from the Jail in which
he has been confined by order of the Court sentencing him to imprisonment until the
period of appeal has expired, or, if at that time an appeal is pending, until the
decision of the Appellate Court is known:

Provided that prisoners committed to the Muzaffargarh Jail may be
transferred to Multan Jail and prisoners committed to the Faisalabad Lock-up may
be transferred to the Gujranwala, Jhelum or Sialkot Jails but no prisoner so
transferred shall be removed from the jail to which the transfer is made until the


--- Page 432 ---
160
period of appeal has expired, or, if an appeal has been filed, until the decision of the
Appellate Court is known; and that notices issued by any Court for service on such
prisoner shall be forwarded without delay to the Superintendent of the Jail in which
the prisoner is confined, with instructions that it be returned direct, after service, to
the Court issuing such notice.

(v) Duty of Jail Superintendent to inform the Superintendent of the
Jail to which the prisoner has been transferred about orders passed by
appellate court.—lIf for any reason an exception is made to the above rule, and a
prisoner is transferred before the order of the Appellate Court is known, the
Superintendent of the Jail to which the prisoner was originally committed will forward
the information or warrant of the order of the Appellate Court to the Superintendent of
the Jail to which the prisoner has been transferred, and the latter officer, having
executed the order, will report execution to the Court issuing the information or
warrant.

(vi) Execution of sentences passed under Section 35, Criminal
Procedure Code.—The Inspector-General of Prisons has pointed out that difficulties
occasionally arise in carrying out sentences, passed under section 35 of the Code of
Criminal Procedure, of which one is to take effect after the expiration of the other,
when the first sentence to be executed is
subsequently set aside on appeal.

(vii) If the sentence which is to take effect first is set aside on appeal
the appellate court should direct the original court to issue a fresh warrant
directing that the second sentence be carried out at once.—When a prisoner, on
whom separate sentences are passed under section 35 of the Criminal Procedure
Code, is committed to jail under two separate warrants, the sentence in the one to
take effect from the expiry of the sentence in the other, the date of such second
sentence shall, in the event of the first sentence being set aside on appeal, be
presumed to take effect from the date on which he was committed to jail under the
first or original sentence. A direction to this effect should invariably be given and
communicated by the Appellate Court to the Court which passed the original
sentence, with a view to the issue of a fresh warrant to the Jail authorities in
suppression of the original warrant.


--- Page 433 ---
161

(vii) Procedure for execution of order of appellate court when
accused has been admitted to bail. —where an accused person has been admitted
to bail pending the hearing of his appeal, the original warrant of commitment shall.
After being retuned by the jail authorities to the court which issued it be forwarded to
the appellate court, which may take action as follows on the decision of the appeal:-

1) In every case in which a sentence is reversed on appeal. The

Appellate court shall return the original warrant with a copy of its order
to the court by which the accused was admitted to bail, with directions
to discharge him.

2) In every case in which a sentence is modified on appeal, the Appellate

Court shall prepare a fresh warrant (in the form prescribed in the
following rule) and shall forward the same, with the original warrant
and with a copy of its order, to the Court by which the accused was
admitted to bail, with directions to take measures to secure his
surrender and commitment to jail on the modified warrant.

3) In every case in which a sentence is confirmed on appeal, the

Appellate Court shall make an endorsement on the original warrant to
the effect that the sentence has been confirmed and return it with a
copy of its order to the Court by which the accused was admitted to
bail, with directions to take measures to secure his surrender and
recommitment to jail on the original warrant.

In each of the cases last above-mentioned it shall be the duty of the Court to
which the accused surrenders to his bail to endorse on the warrant the dates of his
release on bail and of his subsequent surrender.

(ix) Procedure when accused surrenders to his bail in Appellate
Court.—Where an accused who has been release on bail presents himself in an
Appellate or a Revisional Court and his sentence is confirmed or so modified that he
has still to serve some term of imprisonment, such Court shall commit him to Jail on
the original or a modified Warrant, and shall inform the District Magistrate concerned
of the action taken when sending a copy of its judgment.


--- Page 434 ---
162

(x) Procedure when re-trial is ordered.—When, on appeal, re-trial is
ordered and the accused is not released on bail, but is remanded to the judicial
lockup, the Jail authorities should retune the original warrant of commitment to the
trial court. If, however, the order for re-trial is subsequently set aside, and the
appellate court is directed to re-hear the appeal, the appellate court should take care
to re-call the original warrant and re-commit the accused to jail to serve his sentence,
pending disposal of the appeal. If it thinks it fit to release the accused on bail, the
procedure laid down in paragraph (vii) above should be followed.

(xi) Form of warrant when a sentence is modified or altered on
appeal.—The following form of warrant is prescribed for used by Appellate
Courts when a sentence is modified or altered on appeal:-

In the Court of the ==-=--==m==mmmmmmmmmmmemme@t mmm momen
To the Officer-in-charge of the Jail---==-========mmmmmmmm emo
FE a

Whereas--------==-=====mnrmmmmmmene-§ON Of --mmmmmmmmmmmmmmme moe eeee OF
Village--------=--========mmmemmememem-—-Police Station--------=--===-mr=mmmmmemmmeemmeeeen
in the district of ----------------------was convicted by----------------------Magistrate
of -----------—---of the offence of --------------------==eeeeemm---———-and was sentenced
on the ------------day of-----------==n======--19 {0 -------=--=mmmm=mmmmmemeemm-—- Which
convicted and sentence have been modified n appeal by this Court, and in
lieu thereof the said---------------------=---==-=----————-——-has been convicted of the
offence of--------------------------—-----and sentenced on the-------------------day of-
Be aaeel [JR (e BESS

This is to authorize and require you the said Superintendent to receive
the said-------------—---———--into your custody in the said jail, together with this
warrant, and carry the aforesaid sentence into execution according to law;
and this is further to authorize and require you to return to this Court the
original warrant of commitment in lieu whereof this warragnt is issued.

Given under my hand and seal of the Court, this-------day of---------------
19

Sessions Judge or Magistrate.


--- Page 435 ---
163
CHAPTER 21
FIRST OFFENDERS ***[OMITTED]


--- Page 436 ---
164
CHAPTER 22
YOUTHFUL OFFENDERS
PART A—GENERAL

1. ***[Omitted]

*[2. Commitment to prisons of children should be avoided.- It is
now generally accepted that the commitment of children to prison is against
public policy, as it exposes them to the evils resulting from association with
hardened criminals. Therefore, in case of children (i.e. persons under
fourteen) the principle is that commitment to prison should be avoided as far
as possible.

3. Remand to prison pending inquiry or trial not desirable.-
Even for the purposes of remand pending enquiry or trial, the committal of
children and young persons to prison should be avoided. There should be
special place of detention such as remand-homes for them; but till such time
as remand-homes are provided, Courts should make suitable arrangements,
when practicable for the detention of children.

4. Police not empowered to release children on bail, but it
should produce them at once before nearest Magistrate for grant of
bail.- While the police have not power of taking bail in non-bailable offences,
executive action should be taken by the district Magistrates by having children
cases brought up to the nearest Magistrate.]

5. Sentence against juvenile offenders, alternatives.
Imprisonment and detention in Reformatory School to be avoided.—
When a Magistrate is called upon to sentence a juvenile offender, he has the
following alternatives before him. He may order-

(a) whipping,

(b) fine,

(c)  ***[Omitted]

(d) treatment under section 31 of the Reformatory School Act,

(e) detention in a Reformatory School,

[] ***[...] imprisonment.


--- Page 437 ---
165

The subject of detention in a Reformatory School is dealt with separately in
part C. Before ordering imprisonment, Magistrates should make free use of the other
alternatives and should refrain from sending boys to the Reformatory School in cases
where they can be suitably dealt with otherwise.]

6. Cases should be sent to Courts exercising powers of whipping.—
Courts not empowered to pass orders ***[...] under the Whipping Act, should be
encouraged to refer cases suitable to the application of these provisions of law to
Courts which have been invested with the necessary powers.

7. Boys sentenced to but unfit for whipping to be sent to
Reformatory School.—Boys sentenced to whipping and found unfit for it should be
sent to the Reformatory School, if necessary and not to jail.

8. Age of the offender to be noted in the judgment. Sentence of
youthful offenders to imprisonment to be reported to District Magistrate.
Monthly return of offenders under 24 years of age to be sent. Duty of District
Magistrate.—The failure of Magistrate to impose suitable sentences on youthful
offenders is possibly due to inadvertence, the age of the accused not being
prominently in the mind of the Magistrate at the time of passing the sentence. In
order to minimise and, if possible, to abolish the infliction of sentences, which are
likely to have prejudicial effect on the character of a youthful offender, when other
suitable methods of punishment are available, ***[...] all Criminal Courts should in
future enter the ages of the convicts in the body of their judgments, with a view to
being directly seized with the question of age when deciding the sentence to be
imposed on a juvenile or adolescent. ***[...] All Magistrates shall report the cases of
convictions of youthful offenders under 18 years of age, where a sentence of
imprisonment has been awarded, to the *[Sessions Judge or District Magistrate, as
the case may be] as soon as judgment is passed. They shall also submit to the
Sessions Judge or District Magistrate as the case may be at the end of every month
returns of all cases in which persons under the age of 24 years are sentenced to
imprisonment. The *[Sessions Judge or District Magistrates as the case may be] will
scrutinize these cases and returns, and will take action on the revision side in all
suitable cases in general and in particular in all cases in which casual offenders
under 24 years of age have been sent to jail for short terms.]


--- Page 438 ---
166

*[9. Short sentence to be avoided.- Free use of the provisions of section
31 of the Reformatory Schools Act, 1897, should be made where these can be
applied. Section 31 runs as follows:-

[Q))] Power to deal in other ways with youthful offenders including girls.-
Notwithstanding anything contained in this Act or in any other enactment for the time
being in force, any Court may, if it shall think fit, instead of sentencing any youthful
offender to imprisonment of directing him to be detained in a Reformatory School,
order him to be-

(a) discharged after due admonition, or

(b) delivered to his parent or to his guardian or nearest adult relative, or
such parent, guardian or relative executing a bond, with or without
sureties, as the Court may require, to be responsible for the good
behavior of the youthful offender for any period not exceeding twelve
months.

2) For the purposes of this section the term ‘youthful offender’, shall
include a girl.

3) The powers conferred on the Court by this section shall be exercised
only by Courts empowered by or under section8.

(4) When any youthful offender is convicted by a Court not empowered to
act under this section and the Court is of opinion that the powers
conferred by this section should be exercised in respect of such
youthful offender, it may record such opinion and submit the
proceedings and forward the youthful offender to the District
Magistrate to whom such Court is subordinate.

(5) The District Magistrate to whom the proceedings are so submitted
may thereupon make such order or pass such sentences as he might
have made or passed if the case has originally been tried by him.
Youthful offender defined- “Youthful offender” in the above section

means a person under the age of 15 years at the time of conviction.]


--- Page 439 ---
167
PARTN B. —-CHILDREN’S COURTS.

1. ***[omitted].

2. Selection of Magistrate to try children cases: Trial to be held at a
different place,-- The Government *[have] decided that each *[Sessions Judge or
District Magistrate as the case may be] should select one of the Magistrates
subordinate to him whether honorary or stipendiary, before whom all cases
concerning children should be brought. The trial of children should be held, if
possible, at a different place from the Court in which cases are generally hear. If this
is impossible these cases should be heard at a different time from other cases. In the
case of outlying sub-divisions and tahsils, children will normally be brought before the
Magistrate having jurisdiction in the place, who will hear their cases in the same way
as the Magistrate selected at head-quarters.

3. Simple language of trial. —The language used at the trial of youthful
offender should be as simple as possible, and legal phraseology should be reduced
to the bare necessities.

4. Outsiders should not be allowed at the trial. —lIf the case has to be
heard in the Magistrate’s Court room (no other place being available), then the room
should be cleared of all outsiders, only those actually concerned with the particular
case being admitted.


--- Page 440 ---
168
PART C—REFORMATORY SCHOOLS

*[1. Courts empowered to direct youthful offenders to the
Reformatory School- Procedure for a Magistrate not so empowered.- The only
Courts empowered to direct youthful offenders to be sent to the Reformatory School
are:-]

(a) The high Court.

(b) The Court of Session.

(c) ***[Omitted]

(d) Any Magistrate specially empowered by the provincial Government in

this behalf.

The Provincial Government has empowered Magistrates of the 1°! class only
with powers mentioned in section 8(i) of the Reformatory Schools Act(vide Punjab
Government notification No.578-Jails, dated the 7" January 1924); but any
Magistrate who has not been so empowered may, under section 9 of the Act, refer
the case of any youthful offender to the *[Sessions Judge] to whom he is subordinate
and all Magistrates should do so in suitable cases.

2. Record a finding as to age. Definition of youth offender.—A
youthful offender is defined as meaning any boy who has been convicted of any
offence punishable with imprisonment, and who, at the time of such conviction, was
under the age of 15 years; and it is incumbent on all Courts and Magistrates dealing
with cases of youthful offenders (whether specially empowered or not), to make a
preliminary inquiry and to record a finding as to the age of the offender before
directing the offender to be sent to a Reformatory School or making a reference to
the sessions Judge under section 9 for that purpose. In taking the medical evidence
mentioned in paragraph 4 (a) of this chapter, the opinion of the Medical Officer as to
the age of the boy should invariably be recorded.

3. Rules framed by Government. Youthful offender to be sent to
Reformatory School when Magistrate awards imprisonment for life.—The rules
framed by the Punjab Government under the Reformatory Schools Act should be
studied. The effect of Punjab Government notification No. 37, dated the 20" January,
1906, under which these rules were published, appears to be this. A Court
or Magistrate convicting any youthful offender of any of the


--- Page 441 ---
169
offences noted below should act as follows. If the presiding officer considers that the
offence committed is one in connection with which the offender should be-

(a) whipped, or

(b) ***[Omitted]

(c) dealt with under section 31 of the Reformatory School Act, or

(d) fined,

he should pass orders accordingly.

If, however, he considers that the case should not be so dealt with, he must
pass an order of imprisonment commensurate with the offence and then send the
offender to the Reformatory School.

OFFENCES SPECIFIED

*[(1) Any offence except those described in sections 302, 303, 324, 337
and 377 of the Pakistan Penal Code and section 19(3)(a) of the Offence of Zina
(Enforcement of Hudood) Ordinance 1979.]

2) Any abetment or attempt in connection with any such offence.

4. Reformatory School intended for casual criminals and first
offenders capable of reformation. Disqualifications preventing admission.—If
should be borne in mind that before recording an order directing the detention of a
boy in the Reformatory Schools, Courts should satisfy themselves-

(a) after taking medical evidence, that he is not totally blind, insane, idiot,
leprous, tuberculous, epileptic, or suffering from any permanent
physical incapacity for industrial employment; or

(b) that he has not been previously convicted under section 377 of the
Pakistan Penal Code.

A youthful offender with any of these disqualifications will not be admitted into

the Reformatory School, and Courts must deal with such an offender in the ordinary
course under the Pakistan Penal Code. ***[...]


--- Page 442 ---
170

These rules will, it is hoped, secure as inmates of the Reformatory School
casual criminals and first offenders capable of reformation, and will exclude the
corrupting influence of incorrigible offenders, and of boys who have already learnt the
evil that can be learnt in jail.

5. ***[Omitted]

6. Period for which detention in the school is to be ordered. —
Section 8, subsection (1), of the Reformatory Schools Act, 1897 **[(VIII of 1897)]
prescribes the period for which Magistrates must order detention in the Reformatory
School. This section should be read in connection with Punjab Government
notification No. 37, dated the 20" January, 1906, which further limits the Magistrate's
discretion as to the period of detention he can order. It should nevertheless be borne
in mind that a boy ordered to be detained in the Reformatory School for seven years
will not necessarily be kept in the school for so long. He will in any case be
discharged when he attains the age of 18 years.

7. *[Sessions Judge] should recommend to Government when he
thinks that youthful offender though not admissible under the rules is proper
person for admission.—Besides the case of youthful offenders convicted by a
Court of one of the offences specified (vide paragraph 3 of this Chapter), section 10
of the Reformatory Schools Act contemplates another case in which detention in the
Reformatory School may be directed. This section gives the Superintendent of a jail
power to produce before the *[Sessions Judge] any boy who is under the age of 15
years. In deciding whether any youthful offender brought to his notice in this manner
should be sent to the Reformatory School, the *[Sessions Judge] will, of course, be
guided by the rules made by the Provincial Government under section 8, subsection
(3), clause (a), of the Reformatory Schools Act published as Punjab Government
notification No. 37, dated the 20" January 1906. Should the *[Sessions Judge}
consider that the youthful offender, though not admissible to the Reformatory School
under those rules, is a proper person to be an inmate of the School, he must refer the
case to the Provincial Government.


--- Page 443 ---
171

8. Classification of boys in the school. *[Court] should recommend
the class.—Under the rules made by the Provincial Government for the
classification, separation and daily employment of youthful offenders, boys detained
in a Reformatory School will be classed in two divisions, senior and a junior, and
each division will be subdivided into two sub-division, A and B. The senior division
will consist of boys above 14, and the junior division of boys under 14 years of age.
Sub-division A will contain boys not in sub-division B and sub-division B will contain
(1) boys, who by reason of previous offences, whether the subject of criminal
prosecution or not, or of the character of their offence, or the circumstances under
which it was committed (offences against morals and serious organized offences,
whether against property or against ***[...] person) appear to have marked criminal
propensities; (2) boys who have been in jail, except those sent to jail under the
proviso to section 12 of the Reformatory School Act temporarily, i.e,. detained in jail
for want of accommodation in the Reformatory School; (3) boys whose parents are
habitual criminals, and boys who have been subjected to family influences and
surroundings which are likely to *[lead] to a life of crime. In directing the detention of
a boy in the Reformatory School. *[Courts] should, with reference to this rule record
their opinion as to the sub-division in which the boy should be placed while under
detention.

9. Duty of *[Court] to inquire about accommodation in school and to
make arrangement if there is no accommodation.—When a *[Court] orders a boy
to be detained in the Reformatory School he should by telegram ascertain from the
Superintendent thereof whether accommodation is available. If there is
accommodation, the boy should be sent at once to the school; otherwise, he would
be sent to the Jail prescribed by the Provincial Government in notification No. 426,
dated 2™ October, 1903, and the Superintendent of the Reformatory School should
be informed of the Jail to which he is sent or to which he may thereafter be
transferred.

*[10. Magistrates advised to visit the school.—As many first class
Magistrates as possible should pay a visit for inspection to the Reformatory School.]


--- Page 444 ---
172

1. Sanctioning authority for traveling allowance for the visit. —Under
Travelling Allowance Rules 2.48 and 4.3 (serial 7), read with paragraph 22.4, item
(3), Chapter 22.- Delegation Orders of Financial Handbook No. 2, volume II,
Commissioners are authorized in the case of all first class Magistrates within their
division to declares absence from headquarters for the period necessary to visit the
Reformatory School ***[...] to be absence on duty, and thus to sanction the traveling
allowance for such journeys.

12. Second and Third Class Magistrates not required to visit.—
Magistrate should be encouraged to take advantage of these orders, and such visits
should be facilitated, provided always that they do not interfere seriously with the
routine of magisterial work. It is not proposed to grant this concession to Magistrates
of the 2" and 3" class but will apply to Honorary Magistrates of the first class.

13. Sessions Judges may permit Civil Judges exercising criminal
powers to visit the school.—The powers granted above to Commissioners has
been delegated to District and Sessions Judges, who may permit civil Judges who
are also Magistrates of the 1%! class to visit the Reformatory School, ***[...] but one
visit only not exceeding two days, may be allowed in each case.


--- Page 445 ---
173
PART D. BORSTAL JAIL

Attention is drawn to the Punjab Government Circular No. 362-J.L.39/4621
(H-Jails), dated the 4" February 1939, on the subject of Borstal Jail extracts from
which are given below:-

1. Intended for the adolescent convicts of habitual type.—Cases
have come to the notice of Government which indicate that misunderstanding still
exists in the minds of some Magistrates and officials in regard to the nature of Borstal
training and the type of offender to be sent to the Borstal Institution. Some officials
appear to believe that the institution is no more than a Jail in which conditions are
easier than in the ordinary prison; that Borstal is merely an up-to-date term for a
juvenile Jail. In some quarters indeed it seems to be imagined that unless there is an
order for Borstal treatment a juvenile convict will be made to serve his sentence in
association with adult prisoners. The Punjab Borstal Act 1926 ***[...] provides a
special kind of treatment for a particular class of offender; namely, the adolescent
convict of habitual type or (to use the English prison phraseology) the young
recidivist.

2. Sentence suitable for different kinds of youthful offenders.—
Speaking broadly the types of course overlap-there are three categories of young
offenders for whom provision has to be made:-

(a) Casual offenders, other than those convicted of heinous crime.

(b) Juveniles sentenced for offences of a comparatively minor character, but
who are former convicts or are otherwise known to be tending towards a
life of crime.

(c) Juveniles sentenced for murder and other flagrant offences.

Juvenile offenders of type (a) should normally be released on probation of
good conduct or after admonition. In more serious cased where such treatment
appears unsuitable there will perhaps be a sentence of whipping or fine. As has been
repeatedly emphasized, short sentences of imprisonment are always to be avoided,
and the juvenile offender should never be sent to jail, even for a second offence, if
his case can be adequately dealt with in some other way. Offenders of type (c)
present a special problem to which reference will be made later in this chapter.
There remains type (b). It is for this class of convicts


--- Page 446 ---
174

that the Borstal Institutions is intended—the young hooligan or waster on whom
perhaps a previous warning has had no effect and who appears likely unless
reformative treatment is quickly applied, to develop into a professional criminal. It is
not essential, before an order is passed for detention in a Borstal Institution, that a
previous conviction should be established but in the language of section 6 of the
Punjab Act there must be “criminal habits or tendencies or association with persons
of bad character”. In view of this wording it would be permissible to order Borstal
detention, for instance, in the case of lad of sixteen or seventeen who had been
associated with older men in a burglary or dacoity, provided that he had not been
personally concerned in murder or some similar offence. But it would not be proper to
use the Act in a rape case, unless there was reason to believe that the offender had
been responsible for similar outrages before, or had been misled by bad
companionship.

3. Distinguishing features of Borstal treatment, Release on licence.—The
characteristics which distinguish Borstal treatment from ordinary imprisonment are
two:-

(i) An order of Borstal detention must always be for an extended
period-a period longer than for which the offender would have been
sent to jail if he had been sentenced in the ordinary way. In the Punjab
Act a minimum of two years is prescribed. The period must be
sufficient to enable the good influences which it is hoped to bring to
bear on the convict to have their effect.

(ii) After a certain period in the Borstal Institution the offender will
normally be released to served the balance of his term on probation
outside. Other classes of prisoners can, of course, be released on
probation by order of the provincial Government under the Good
Conduct Prisoners Probational Release Act, 1926, or under section
401 of the Code of Criminal Procedure. In the case of Borstal detenue,
however, release on probation can be ordered by the Visiting
Committee, subject to the sanction of the Director of Borstal
Institutions,* without reference to Government.


--- Page 447 ---
175

Release on licence is thus an integral feature of Borstal treatment. The young
criminal is to be subjected for an extended period to reformative influences: first
within the walls of the institution, where he will be in contact with a house master,
taking a close personal interest in his character and development; and afterwards on
licence outside, where a probation officer will fufil a similar function.

4. Primary object of keeping such offenders in Borstal Jail.—Such
an automatic system of probational release would clearly be unsuitable for prisoners
of type (c) mentioned above-juveniles sentenced for homicide or other flagrant
offences. For the most part the offenders in this class have brought themselves
within the reach of the law by a single violent act. They have no tendency to-wards
crime in general, and if it were possible to concentrate exclusively on the reformation
of the individual, disregarding all other considerations, the most suitable treatment in
many cases would be immediate release. The primary object in keeping them in
confinement is, ***[...] “to satisfy the public indignation with regard to the serious
character of the crime which calls for punishment’. The need for bringing good
influences to bear should always be kept in mind, but with offenders of this type the
reformative aspect of imprisonment must be secondary. In some cases it may be
possible to release the prisoner on probation after a certain period in jail, but this is
permitted only under the orders of the Provincial Government. Adolescent prisoners
of this type are thus radically different from those for whom the Borstal system has
been devised. They must of course be kept separate form adult convicts, but their
sentences are to be served in jail, not in a Borstal Institution.

5. When offenders should be sent to the Borstal Institution and
when to the Reformatory School.--***[...] Magistrates may at times feel a doubt
whether a particular offender should be sent to the Borstal Institution or to the
Reformatory School. Such doubts can generally be resolved by considering the age
of the offender. The School ***[...] established under the Reformatory School Act,
1897, is intended for younger type of offenders than that for which the
Borstal Institution caters. To be sent to the Reformatory School the offenders must
at the time of conviction be under fifteen: the corresponding age in the case of
the Borstal Institution is twenty one. Cases sometimes occur in


--- Page 448 ---
176

which it is necessary to sentence boys of only ten or twelve years of age to
imprisonment. In such cases the Reformatory School is always to be preferred;
children of this age would be quite out of place in the Borstal Institution. The School
also differs form the Borstal in the character of the training given to the inmates. The
Borstal Institution has of course, its school, as well as the factories in which the lads
are given vocational training, but the educational arrangements are much more
elaborate. The boys there are of ordinary school age, and an education is provided
for them which would hardly be suitable for the older adolescents in the Borstal. It
may be mentioned here that in the case of admissions to the Reformatory School
there is no such distinction between casual and habitual offenders as there is in the
case of the Borstal Institution. Whereas there is an absolute bar against the use of
the Borstal Act in the case of juveniles convicted of offences punishable with death,
the School will receive even this type of juvenile offender, with the special permission
of the Provincial Government.


--- Page 449 ---
177
CHAPTER 23
HABITUAL OFFENDERS
PARTA--PREVENTIVE MEASURES

Preventive measures against habitual offenders.—The Criminal Procedure Code
provides for preventive measures of two kinds against habitual offenders. Under
section 110, security can be taken for their good behaviour (vide Chapter 3, Security
Cases) ***[...], for a period extending upto five years in the event of their conviction in
certain offences. In the Punjab another important remedy is provided by the
“Restriction of Habitual Offenders Act 1918(V of 1918). Under this Act an habitual
offender can be restricted in his movements to a certain area or required to report
himself at times and places in the manner prescribed in the order. An order of
restriction may be passed in the same circumstances in which an order for security
for good behaviour may be passed, but both orders cannot be made against a
person at the same time (ef. Section 7 of the Act). The procedure to be followed in
proceedings under this Act is mostly the same as that in proceedings under section
110 *[of the Code of Criminal Procedure 1898]; but there are certain differences. For
instance, when an order of restriction for a period of more than one year is passed by
a Magistrate, the order of restriction does not require any confirmation by the
Sessions Judge. Care should be taken to see that the order of restriction is in
conformity with the rules framed by the Provincial Government under the Act (vide
part F of this Chapter). An order directing a person not to leave his house between 8
p.m. and 5 a.m was held in 8 L.L.R. Lah. 267, to be ultravires, not being in conformity
with the aforesaid rules. District Magistrates have power to substitute an order of
restriction in lieu of an order for security under section 110, of the said Code in any
case coming to their notice on appeal or otherwise. Sessions Judges can make a
similar order in cases submitted to them under section 123(2) *[of the said Code].

An order of restriction is especially suitable in the case of habitual offenders
who are not in a position to furnish security and in whose case an order for security
under section 110 *[of the said Code] would necessitate their commitment to jail.


--- Page 450 ---
178
PART B.—SENTENCES

1. Enhanced punishment under section 75 Pakistan penal Code.-
Under section 75 of the Pakistan Penal Code, a person convicted a second time of
an offence punishable under Chapter XII or Chapter XVII of the code, with three
years’ imprisonment and upwards is liable to a greatly enhanced sentence.

*2. Procedure for Magistrates not competent to award enhanced
punishment.- This of course, does not increase the competence of the Court trying
the offender; but section 348 of the Code of Criminal Procedure gives the Magistrate
a discretion to try the case himself, if in his opinion, an adequate sentence can be
passed by him. If the Magistrate is unable adequately to punish the accused person,
he should send such person to the Court of Session or High court.]

3. ***[Omitted].

*[4. Procedure when Magistrate cannot punish adequately.-- Where a
Magistrate finds he is unable to punish an offender adequately, he should under
section 347 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, send the case for trial to the Court of
Session or High Court.]

5. Enhanced punishment not obligatory.—Although section 75 of the
Pakistan penal Code makes a previous convict in certain classes of cases liable to
enhanced punishment, it is of course, not obligatory to impose an enhanced
sentence in every case of this description. In deciding whether an enhanced
sentence under this section is needed and whether the case should be sent to a
***[...] Magistrate empowered under section 30 of the *[Code of Criminal Procedure]
or committed to the Sessions Court, the Magistrate should fully consider all the
circumstances of the present offence as well as the past conviction.

Enhanced punishment not suitable in petty cases or in cases of old
convictions. Ordinarily, cases of petty nature (e.g., thefts of small quantities of food,
clothes, utensils etc.) should be left to First Class Magistrate, unless the nature,
number and sequence of previous convictions and the sentences previously
undergone clearly show the necessity of a higher sentence than two years’
imprisonment. Similarly, very old convictions (e.g., when the offence is


--- Page 451 ---
179
committed say, more than five years after the last release of the offender from jail)
should not ordinarily be made a ground, for imposing an enhanced penalty under this
section in the absence of special reasons.

Case of organized crimes.—Cases of organized crime stand on a different
footing, and where the offence under trial and the previous offences are of this
description greater weight must be attached to them.

Enhanced punishment suitable when previous convictions indicate a
criminal habit which needs to be checked by deterrent punishment.—The
General principle to be borne in mind is that is meant to be used as a deterrent only
when the punishment provided for the offence itself is considered to be inadequate in
view of the antecedents of the offender. The judgments in the previous cases should
be referred to freely in Order to ascertain the real character of the offender and the
section should not be resorted to unless the previous convictions indicate a criminal
habit or instinct which needs to be checked by a punishment higher than that
provided for the offence.

It should also be remembered that a moderate sentence or an order of
restriction under the Restriction of Habitual Offenders Act, is generally a better way of
dealing with habitual offenders than the imposition of long term of imprisonment.

6. Previous conviction for attempts to commit an offence not
covered by Section 75, Pakistan Penal Code.--***[...] Previous convictions for
attempts to commit offences specified in section 75 or a security order under section
110, Criminal Procedure Code, do not bring an offender within the scope of section
75, Pakistan Penal Code.

7. ***[Omitted].

*[8. Action to be taken by Magistrate of 2" or 3" Class when he
cannot award adequate punishment.—Section 349 of the Code of Criminal
Procedure gives a Magistrate of the second or third Class the means of securing the
proper punishment of an accused when he finds, in the course of the trial, that
the maximum sentence which he is empowered to inflict would be insufficient. At
the same time, in resorting to this section, it must be remembered that, when
the accused appears to be a habitual offender and the


--- Page 452 ---
180
Magistrate thinks that he ought to receive more severe punishment than he is
competent to inflict, he should forward the accused to a Magistrate of the 1*' Class
specially empowered in this behalf by the Provincial Government.

9. Duty of the Police to prove previous conviction. Discovery of
previous conviction after Judgment has been pronounced .- It is the duty of the
Police, in conducting the investigating, to take proper steps to establish the identity of
an accused person and to obtain and produce evidence of previous convictions
against him for the discovery, subsequent to sentence, that the prisoner was a
previous convict, but that this had escaped notice on account of a change of name is
not in itself a ground for interference on appeal or revision.]

10. Previous convictions to be noted on the warrant of commitment
and in a separate statement. Note on the warrant when the identity of the
prisoner has not been proved or he declines to give an account of himself.—In
Punjab Government Circular No. 43-1077, dated the 29" July, 1870, the Criminal
Courts of the Province were instructed to enter any previous conviction or convictions
of prisoner upon the warrant committing him to jail, and the attention of all
Magistrates is directed to these instructions. In the form of warrant of commitment
prescribed for use under the Code of Criminal Procedure, provision had been made
for mention of the fact that the convict has been previously convicted, when one or
more previous convictions have been proved against him at his trial, and for the entry
of the particulars of the previous convictions in a separate statement, which should
be attached to the warrant of commitment in such cases.

***[...] The Magistrates, when committing a prisoner to jail, will enter a note in
red ink on the warrant of commitment, in case where the identity of the prisoner has
not been satisfactorily ascertained, or he declines to give an account of himself.


--- Page 453 ---
181
PART C.—DEFINITION AND CLASSIFICATION
OF HABITUAL CRIMINALS
Persons liable to be classified as habitual criminals.—The *[Federal]
Government has framed the following rules defining and prescribing the treatment of
“habitual criminals” for the purpose of jail discipline:-

I.-- The following persons shall be liable to be classified as “habitual

criminals”, namely:-

(i) Any person convicted of an offence punishable under Chapter Xl,
XVII, and XVIII of the Pakistan Penal Code, whose previous conviction
or convictions, taken in conjunction with the facts of the present case,
show that he is by habit a robber, house-breaker, dacoit, thief or
receiver of stolen property, or thathe habitually commits extortion,
cheating, counterfeiting coin, currency notes or stamps, or forgery.

(ii) Any person convicted of an offence punishable under Chapter XVI of
the Pakistan Penal Code, whose previous conviction or
convictions, taken in conjunction with the facts of the present case,
show that he habitually commits offences against the person.

(iii) Any person committed to or detained in prison under section 123
(read with section 109 or section 110) of the Code of Criminal Procedure.

(iv) Any person convicted of any of the offences specified in (i) above
whenit appears from the facts of the case, even although no previous
conviction has been proved, that he is by habit a member of a gang of
dacoits, or of thieves or a dealer in slaves or in stolen property.

(v) Any member of a criminal tribe, subject to the description of the
Provincial Government concerned.

(vi) Any person convicted of an offence an sentenced to imprisonment
under the corresponding sections of the Pakistan Penal Code, and the
Code of Criminal Procedure. ***[...]


--- Page 454 ---
182
(vii) Any person convicted by a Court or Tribunal acting outside Pakistan
under the general or special authority of the *[Federal] Government of an
offence which would have rendered him liable to be classified as a
habitual criminal if he had been convicted in a Court established in
Pakistan.

Explanation:- For purpose of this definition the word “conviction” shall include
an order made under section 118, read with section 110, of the Criminal Procedure
Code.

Il.-- Classifying authority. Right of prisoner for revision of the order
of classification.—The classification of a convicted person as a habitual criminal
should ordinarily be made by the convicting Court, but if the convicting Court omits to
do so, such classification may be made by the District Magistrate, or in the absence
of an order by the convicting Court or District Magistrate, and pending the result of a
reference to the District Magistrate, by the officer incharge of the jail where such
convicted person is confined: provided that any person classed as a habitual criminal
may apply for a revision or the order.

li.-- Power of District Magistrate or convicting Court not to classify
certain convicts as habitual criminals.—The convicting Court or the District
Magistrate may, for reasons to be recorded in writing, direct that any convicted
person or any person committed to or detained in prison under section 123 read with
section 109 or section 110 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, shall not be classed as
a habitual criminal and may revise such direction.

IV.-- Revision of classification.—Convicting Courts or District
Magistrates, as the case may be, may revise their own classifications, and the
District Magistrate may alter any classification of a prisoner made by a convicting
Court or any other authority; provided that the alteration is made on the basis of facts
which were not before such Court or authority.

Note:- The expression “District Magistrate” whether it occurs in paragraphs I,

Ill and IV above means the District Magistrate of district in which the

criminal was convicted, committed or detained.***[....]


--- Page 455 ---
183

V.-- Habitual Criminal to be kept in a special jail.—Every habitual
criminal shall as far as possible be confined in a special jail | which no prisoner other
than habitual criminal shall be kept: provided that the Inspector-General of Prisons
may transfer to this special Jail any prisoner not being a habitual criminal whom, for
reasons to be recorded in writing, he believes to be of so vicious or depraved a
character, and to exercise or to be likely to exercise, so evil an influence on his fellow
prisoners that he ought not to be confined with other non-habitual prisoners, but a
prisoner so transferred shall not otherwise be subject to the special rules affecting
habitual criminals. Government of India Resolution No. F.llI-Jail, dated 15"
September 1922).

vi Member of criminal tribe defined.—With reference to rule 1(v)
above, the Provincial Government has defined “a member of a criminal tribe” as
follows:-

“A registered member of a criminal tribe who is convicted of any of the
offences specified in rule 28 of the Rules under the Criminal Tribes Act, viz.-

(a) section 109 or 110 of the Criminal Procedure Code;

(b) non bailable offence described in Chapter XII and XVII of the

Pakistan Penal Code; and
(c) offences under the Criminal Tribes Act, 1911 unless the convicting
Magistrate otherwise directs”.

VIl.-- Convicting officer to decide about classification and should note
it on the warrant.—Whenever a person is sentenced to imprisonment for an offence,
the Magistrate or Judge who passes the sentence should determine whether the
prisoner is to be classed as a habitual criminal or otherwise, and should endorse the
words “habitual” or “non-habitual’, as the case may be, on the warrant of
commitment, and sign such endorsement.

VIIl.-- Statement of previous conviction should be attached to
warrant.—If the prisoner has been previously convicted, a statement containing the
particulars of the previous co9nvictions should be attached to the warrant of
commitment.]


--- Page 456 ---
184
PART D.—RESIDENCE OF RELEASE CONVICTS.

Copy of order under Section 565, Criminal Procedure Code to be sent to
jail. — In every case in which an order under section 565 of the Criminal Procedure
Code is made, directing that the person sentenced to imprisonment shall notify his
residence and any change of residence after release, a copy of such orde should be
transmitted by the Court passing the sentence and order, with the warrant of
commitment issued under section 384 of the Code, to the officer in charge of the jail
or other place in which the prisoner is, or is to be, confined. Attention is also invited to
the following rules:-

NOTIFICATION
The 6" March, 1931.

No. 7335.—In exercise of the powers conferred by subsection (3) of section
565 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1898, the Governor-in-Council is pleased to
make the following rules regulating the notification of residence or change of or
absence from, residence by released convicts in regard to whom an order has been
made under subsection (1) of section 565 of the said Code.

Punjab Government notification No. 395 (Home-Judicial), dated the 13"
March 1901, is hereby cancelled.

RULES

[8 Released convicts to observe rules.—When, at the time of passing
sentence of transportation or imprisonment on any person, the Court or Magistrate
also orders that his residence and any change of residence after release be notified
for the term specified in such order, such person shall comply with and be subject to
the rules next following. In these rules a person released subject to an order of the
nature herein before described is called a “released convict.”

I. Released convict to notify, at the time of release, intended place
of residence to releasing officer—Every convict in regard to whom an order has
been made under section 565 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1898, shall,
not less than fourteen days before the date on which he is entitled to be
released, notify the officer incharge of the jail, or other place in which he


--- Page 457 ---
185
may for the time being be confined, of the place at which he intends to reside after
his release.

1. Released convict to notify intention to change first residence at
local Police Station.—Whenever any released convict intends to change his place
of residence, from the place which he specified at the time of his release as the place
at which he intended to reside, to any other place, he shall notify the fact of such
intention and the place at which he hereafter intends to reside, not less than twenty-
four hours before he so changes his residence, to the officer in charge of the Police
Station within the jurisdiction of which he resides at the time when he notifies his
intention to change his residence.

Iv. Released convict to similarly notify all subsequent intentions to
change residence.—Whenever any released convict intends to change his place of
residence from any place at which he may, at any time, be residing, under the
provisions of Rule Il, he shall notify any intended change of residence in the manner
in that rule provide.

V. Period to be appointed for taking up residence.- In default the
convict to notify his actual residence.—The Officer recording a notification under
rule Il, rule Ill or rule IV, shall appoint such period as may be reasonably necessary
to enable the convict to take up his residence in the place notified. If the convict does
not take up his residence in such place within the period so appointed he shall, not
later than the day following the expiry of such period, notify in person his actual place
of residence to the officer in charge of the Police Station within the limits of which he
is residing.

VL. Released convict to notify the fact of his having actually taken up
his residence at the place specified under preceding rules.—Every released
convict shall, within twenty-four hours of his arrival at the place of residence notified
under rule Il or rule Ill or rule IV, notify the fact of such arrival to the officer in charge
of the Police Station within the jurisdiction of which such place of residence is situate.

VIL. Particulars of place of residence to be supplied. — In notifying
places of residence under these rules released convict shall—


--- Page 458 ---
186

(a) if the place of residence is in a rural tract—specify the name of the
village, hamlet, or locality of such place and the Jail, thana, tahsil and
district within the limits of which such place is situate;

(b) if the place of residence is in a town or city—specify the name of the
town or city and the street, quarter and sub-division of the town or city
within the limits of which such place is situate.

VII. Manner of notifying changes of residence.—Every notification, to
be made by a released convict under rules Ill, IV and VI, respectively, shall be made
by such convict personally at the proper Police Station:

(a) the District Magistrate may, by order in writing, exempt any released
convict from the operation of this rule any may permit such convict to
make such notifications in writing or in such other manner as the
District Magistrate may, in such order, prescribe in that behalf;

(b) if from illness or other unavoidable cause, any released convict is
prevented from making any notification required by these rules
personally at the proper Police Station, he may do so by written
communication addressed to the officer in charge of the proper Police
Station. Such communication shall state the cause of his inability to
attend in person at the Police Station, and shall, before it is
transmitted to the proper Police Officer, be attested by a village
headman or other village officer.

Note 1:-Subsidiary Rules issued by the Police Department will be found in Appendix

28—39 (I) to the Punjab Police Rules, Volume II.

Note 2:-Rules made by the Punjab Government in exercise of the powers conferred

by Section 16 of the Restriction of Habitual Offenders (Punjab) Act, 1918 (V of 1918),

are published in Punjab Government Notification No. 9853, dated the 29" April, 1918.


--- Page 459 ---
187

PART E.—IDENTFICATION OF RE-CONVICTED PRISONERS

Introductory.—At the request of the Provincial Government the following
instructions are issued with a view to insuring the proper recognition of re-convicted
prisoners for the purpose of jail discipline.

2. Descriptive roll of the convict.—According to the existing practice
in this Province, the descriptive roll of each person sent up by the police for trial is
retained in the office of the Magistrate and filed with the Judicial record of the case.
Under instruction of the Central Government, it is necessary that a descriptive roll of
every prisoner arrested by the police should be prepared at the station-house and be
sent up with the prisoner to the Magistrate, and that this roll, in the event of the final
conviction of the prisoner by the Magistrate, should be copied in a register kept up in
the jail for the purpose.

3. Charge sheet to be sent up by police. —As in the Punjab the
descriptive roll is embodied in the charge sheet sent up by the police, all that appears
to be required is that the charge sheet, instead of being at once filed with the
magisterial records of the case, should accompany the warrant of commitment to the
jail, that the descriptive roll of the prisoner should be copied into the jail register, and
that thereafter the charge sheet should be returned to the Magistrate.

4. Charges to be sent to jail. —Magistrates are, therefore, instructed to
forward the charge sheet, with the warrant of commitment, to the Superintendent of
the Jail, who will be directed by the Inspector General of Prisons to cause the
descriptive roll to be copied from the charge sheet into the appropriate jail register.
The Superintendent will then return the charge sheet to the Magistrate.


--- Page 460 ---
188
PART F.—RULES FRAMED UNDER THE
PROVISIONS OF RESTRICTION OF HABTUAL
OFFENCDERS (PENJAB) ACT, 1918.
The 29" April 1918.

No. 9853. — In exercise of the powers conferred by section 16 of the
Restriction of Habitual Offenders (Punjab) Act, 1918, the Lieutenant-Governor (now
Governor) is pleased to make the following rules:-

RULES

1. Definition.—In these rules the expression “Court’ includes
“Magistrate.”

2. Areas of restriction.—The areas to which persons may be restricted
by an order under this Act shall ordinarily by--

(a) if the person resides in a village — the area of the village to which may
be added at the discretion of the Court the areas of any contiguous
villages in which the said person owns or occupies any immovable
property or practices any trade or calling;

(b) if the person resides in a town — the area of the town;

But in special cases the Court may fix a larger area.

(i) Exception. — Unless the person restricted is an owner of land or an

occupancy tenant, the Court may, if it is of opinion that restriction to the

aforesaid areas is expedient, select any other village or town, as the case
may be, in the district within which the person ordinarily resides.

(ii) If the person restricted has been twice convicted of offences under

Chapter XVII of the Pakistan Penal Code, and is not an owner of land or an

Occupancy Tenant, the area of restriction may be any settlement established

under section 16 of the Criminal Tribes Act, 1911, but the Court must obtain

the concurrence of the Deputy Commissioner for Criminal Tribes before
restricting any person to such settlement.


--- Page 461 ---
189

3. Absence without leave Passes.—No person restricted by an order
of restriction under this Act shall leave or be absent from the area of restriction
without having obtained a pass in accordance with these rules and except in
accordance with the terms of such pass.

Proviso.—Nothing contained in this rule shall be deemed to render it illegal
for any restricted person to leave the limits of the area of restriction whenever
necessary for the purpose of appearing at the police station or before the nearest
Magistrate to complain of an offence affecting himself or his family, or to present an
appeal or petition of revision against the order of restriction, or to obtain a pass under
these rules, provided that he gives due notice of his intended departure to the
headman of his village or town or to the officer in charge of the settlement, proceeds,
straight to the police station or Court of the Magistrate and returns without
unnecessary delay.

4. Times of report.—The times at which a person is required by an
order of restriction to report himself shall be such times at intervals of not less than
24 hours and not more than 7 days as the Court may fix; but such times shall not be
more frequent than the Court thinks strictly necessary in each case.

Places of report.—The place of report shall be the house of the headman or
other person or officer, who, in exceptional cases for reasons to be recorded in
writing, may be a police officer not below the rank of an officer-in-charge of a police
station, as the Court may direct; provided that no person shall be required to report
himself at a place situated more than three miles from the place where he ordinarily
resides.

Mode of report.—Every person required to report himself by an order of
restriction under this Act shall do so by attending in person and announcing his
presence, unless physically incapacitated from doing so.

5. Leave for one day.—A person restricted to any area by an order of
restriction under this Act may be granted a pass in Form A appended to these rules
authorizing him to leave the said area for one day, between sunrise and sunset--


--- Page 462 ---
190
(a) if he is restricted to any village or group of contiguous villages or
larger area—by any headman of the village in which he ordinarily
resides;

(b) if he is restricted to town—by such person or officer as may be

specified by the District Magistrate;

(c) if he is restricted to a settlement—by the officer-in-charge of the

settlement.

6. Leave not exceeding 15 days.—The officer-in-charge of the police
station or settlement within the limits of which any person is restricted by an order of
restriction under this Act may on due cause being shown grant such person leave of
absence for a period not exceeding 15 days and may issue a pass to him.

7. Long leave.—The District Magistrate of the district in which any
person is restricted by an order of restriction under this Act, or any person only
authorized by the District Magistrate in writing in this behalf, may on due cause being
shown grant such person any leave of absence which he may deem reasonable and
may issue a pass to him.

8. Conditions attaching to absence on leave.-- Any person granted
leave of absence under rule 6 or rule 7 shall travel to his destination and return to his
residence by the route specified in the pass. He shall have the time and date of his
arrival endorsed on the pass by the headman of the village of destination, and within
three days of his arrival he shall report himself at the police station within the limits of
which his destination is situated, and shall present his pass for endorsement.

9. Reports while on leave.—During such time as any person restricted
to any area by an order of restriction under this Act is absent from the area of
restriction, he shall report himself once every three days to the headman of the
village in which he may happen to be, and once in every 15 days he shall, unless
exempted by order of the District Magistrate, report himself to, and present his pass
for endorsement by, the officer-in-charge of the police station.


--- Page 463 ---
191

10. Surrender of passes.—On his return to his residence he shall deliver
the pass up to the authority from whom he received it. All passes so returned shall be
sent for record to the police station within whose limits the person is restricted.

11. Form of passes.—Passes issued under rule 6 or rule 7 shall be
printed and filled in Urdu in Form B appended to these rules. They shall be drawn up
in triplicate and each part shall be signed or sealed by the authority granting the
pass. One part shall be retained by such authority, the second shall be given to the
person granted leave, and the third part shall be sent to the officer in charge of the
police station within the limits of which the destination of the holder of the pass lies.

12. Person on leave unable to return, Withdrawal of passes.—If any
person who has been granted a pass under these rules is from any unavoidable
cause prevented from returning to his residence within the period of his leave, he
shall at once give information to the nearest police station. The officer-in-charge of
the police station shall verify the information and shall send a report to the authority
which issued the pass.

13. Withdrawal of passes.—Any pass granted under these rules may at
any time be withdrawn by the authority which granted it, or by the District Magistrate
or any officer duly authorized by him in writing in this behalf.


--- Page 464 ---
192
Zz
£
o
29
5 Ey
Zs =
£z Zs
Zz T H
H £3 i
wr E :
TRON :
x z |Z
=] oe g R
gr. ih
is 7 523
Bnd 7 3
£ 3 f
a 2
s 8 g ]
8 : iL
: : 3 { 55
F2 TT 5
PA FE
= 5 : {
FZ ll;
3 3 2
8 7 :
ER vf
§ El rr : Ny
g £883 : 3
L E5z5 E-
CCE
Phlblblbd pd Pz
PhP x
Z - ~
g 2 ow;
E] Fa
i £g_
= E52
: £2 | z%¢
f BS | 722
H ix i
L = 43
8 & 1
| 5 i:
Ee ; !
i £35
Et 3 pis
3 2 — i:
: z
: 5g 29
ig 15 i
: 2
i: § | BE 3
fg En] E52
Ls > >
2 ; 2m
B 3 E i
C3 Eg =
fs 2 | =
d EET =
i = § = 9
55g


--- Page 465 ---
3
<i
El 5 It o 3B
£3 3 g 8
Z & i232 5 3
Ed i. 2 |%3 = 2
£2. gs 2|=8 2 =
28 ig Zz gE Ey
£2 i3 : gE &3
2 =: % oo Za
22 3: |= 8 35
£5 bs 2/2 & =%
EZ iy £ S uf
A  I zg £8
550% zk 3 at
zg 2 5 [22 Eu
i I z ©
22 s z
432
5 23 :
: 3 == 2 3
: ey £3 5 3
= 2 |58 Te lid Z-
- EB YE fz 2-5 2 5
CO co = 3 = oH
2 ££ [Ez a: 3 E 23g
= ae io 5 is
€ 3 [Zz =3 7 > =z
= & |E2 5% £ 5 TE
@ £ 2 £5 » 2 ef
2 a 2 =
Ss 2 [EE aF 3|4# S =z
Z 2 |ZC 3% = 3 Zz
> Ez 2% 5 eg £2
= E zz £° SE £5
i g Z £5 ER]
z £ CN EE
= 3 a 9
= El = z
JT rr CAP]
22
23 5
4 £ e
] f) § 3
i. oy |i =e
~ 52 3 |3§ ER
5. gz 2 |=§ £ 38
E iz 3 ER
8 gc 3 gE E2
z= 2z g ay mE
2 z 5 E
x= 35 |= Eg bo
= EF A E es
5 2g & B=
£35 kL 5 2%
Ch EX ER
4 EP Ed
2 5 |E7 g
£ 3 5 5
4 7
2 2 z
42


--- Page 466 ---
194
i:
: ENDORSEMENTS WHILE ON LEAVE 1
Date of Signature of Dates of Signature Dates of Signature of | I
departure on headman or | endorsements | of headman | endorsements | headman or | |
leave officer while on leave | or officer | while on leave officer. |
gE 3
Date of Signature 3
endorsements | of headman

While on leave | or officer a
Dac of Signawre |

return to of headman |

residence orofficer |

Date of Sigoawre |

pass reaching | of officer |

police station | incharg |

BE

4


--- Page 467 ---
195
CHAPTER 24
SESSIONS CASES
*[PART A-GENERAL.

1. Cognizance of offence by Court of Session.—Commitment
proceedings stand abolished, but except as otherwise expressly provided by the
Code of Criminal Procedure or by any other law for the time being in force, no Court
of Session can take cognizance of any offence as a Court of original jurisdiction
unless the case has been sent to it under sub-section (3) of section 190, of the Code
of Criminal Procedure.[See section 193, sub-section (1)].

2. Magistrate to send the case to Court of session.—Section 190(3)
requires a Magistrate taking cognizance under sub-section (1) thereof, of an offence
triable by a Court of Session, to send the case to the Court of Session for trial without
recording any evidence.

3. Magistrate to apply his mind before sending the case.—The cases
“triable exclusively by a Court of Session” under section 190(3) are significant; for
example, all offences punishable with death and offences punishable under the
offence of Zina (enforcement of Hadood) Ordinance, 1979 are offences triable
exclusively by the Court of Session. Though the magistrate is required to send the
case to the Court of Session without recording any evidence, yet, he is not to act as a
mere post office. He must apply his judicial mind to the material before him to
ascertain whether the case is one exclusively triable by the Court of Session or it is
one which he can proceed to try himself. (See1985 SCMR 1314; 1981 SCMR 267).

4. Magistrate to justify sending of case.—lt is also to be noted that
what the Magistrate sends to the Court of Session is the “Case” and not a particular
accused. The occurrence of the name of a person in a particular coSlumn of the
Challan or even the absence of a person's name from the Challan does not,
therefore, affect the jurisdiction of the Court of Session to summon that person to
stand his trial, if there be material on the record to justify such a cause. (See 1985
SCMR 1314).


--- Page 468 ---
196

5. STATE AS “PROSECUTOR”.—In all cases sent for trial to the Court
of Session the “State” should be entered as a prosecutor.

6. Trial by Additional sessions Judges.—Additional Sessions Judges
can try such cases only as the Provincial Government may by general or special
order direct them to try or as the Sessions Judge of the Division by general or special
order, make over to them for trial. (Section 193(2) of the Code.)]


--- Page 469 ---
197
PART B. — TRIAL OF SESSIONS CASES.

*[1.  Introductory.- For the expeditious disposal of Sessions cases,
Sessions Judges should reserve for each Sessions case several days for trial,
preferably in consultation with the prosecutor and the defence counsel.

2. Reservation of several days for possible Sessions cases.- The
trial of a Sessions case shall, as a rule, be held from day to day and unless there be
compelling reasons for adjournment, there should be no adjournment.

3. Priority of Sessions’ cases over other work.- The instructions
contained in paragraph 5-A of Chapter 1, Part A of this Volume regarding
postponement of cases in order to avert the arrest of other accused in the case apply
mutates mutandis to Sessions cases.

4. Prompt disposal of Sessions’ cases.- Cases of flagrant disregard of
the day to day hearing rule have come to the notice of this Court. It has been noticed
that in some case, Sessions trial have, after their commencement, taken months, in
some cases years, to conclude. The High Court takes a very serious view of this
practice and requires:

(i) explanation to be furnished in monthly Sessions statement of any

cases pending over six months; and

(ii) explanation for every case in which trial has commenced but has not

concluded during the days reserved for them; this explanation shall
mention the date of the commencement of the trial and reason for
each adjournment]

5. ***[Omitted].

6. ***[Omitted].

7. ***[Omitted].

*[8. Examination of record.- On receipt of the record the case will be
registered and when the date and place of the trial have been fixed a memorandum
should be made on the calendar and due notice thereof sent to all concerned.


--- Page 470 ---
198

8-A. Under section 14-A of the Arms Ordinance 1965, an offence under
section 13 or section 14 is now triable by a Magistrate of the First Class.

The intention of the law appears to be that even the possession of illegal
arms forming part of the same transaction with the graver offence, as for instance,
the possession of the illegal weapon at the time of murder should be tried by
Magistrates.

In such cases the Magistrate should record evidence, but should preferably
reserve judgment till the decision of the Sessions case.

9. Sessions Judge may summon any witness not included in the
Calendar.- The Police diaries should be examined to make sure that material
witness has not been left out. If the record is carefully examined on its receipt,
Sessions Judges will be able to summon any witness not included in the calendar
whom they may consider material and thus avoid the necessity of an adjournment,
which is extremely inconvenient in Sessions trials.]

10.  ***[Omitted]

*[11. Charge to be read out. Mode of recording evidence.- The names
and description of the counsel appearing for the prosecution and defence should be
noted on the first page of the record of trial. If the accused is unrepresented the fact
should be noted. The record should show every examination and re-examination of
each witness; and if the accused does not avail himself of the liberty to cross-
examine, a note should be entered to that effect.]

12. ***[Omitted]

*[13. Papers to be transferred to Sessions record.- The various papers
in the Sessions record should be compiled in the following order:-

1. Order Sheet.

2. Covering Sheet.

3. Opening sheet.

4. Charge Sheet.

5. Chemical Examiner's report.


--- Page 471 ---
199

6. Serologist’s report.

7. Medical evidence.

8. Deposition of prosecution witness.

9. Statement under section 342 Cr.P.C. of the accused.

10. Defence sheet of the accused including his statement under section

340(2) Cr.P.C.

11. Judgment

12. List of documentary exhibits.

13. Documentary exhibits.

14. In preparing records in Sessions cases and in copying judgments, the
following instructions should be strictly followed, namely-

[Q))] the record of evidence of each witness shall be numbered;

2) the evidence should usually begin with that of the medical witness;

3) confessions and other previous statements of each accused person

shall immediately precede his or her statement in the Court of
Session;

(4) the pages of the original judgment should be noted in the margin of
each copy of a judgment issued and the pages of copies of the record of evidence of
witnesses should be similarly noted.

14-A. Medical evidence.- (1) The medical evidence should be recorded
with care and precision in the English language and should be translated into Urdu
and read over to the accused in order that he may have an opportunity to cross-
examine.

2) The Court recording medical evidence should not content with
merely taking down, in the presence of the accused, the statement of the Medical
Officer but should, if necessary, examine him further in view of the detailed
instructions contained in Chapter 18 of this Volume titled “Medical


--- Page 472 ---
200
Legal Work” in which suitable questions to be put to Medical Officers in certain
classes of cases are suggested.

14-B. Inquest reports.- In all cases in which the medical evidence is
that the body of a person alleged to have been murdered reached the witness in a
state of decomposition, evidence of the condition of the body when first discovered
should be recorded and formal proof obtained of the “inquest report” “Surat-e-Hal”
when there is one. In almost all cases of homicide, it is desirable that the police
officer who first viewed the body and prepared the “surat-e-hal” shall be required to
put in and prove that document.

14-C. Other circumstances to be proved.- Circumstances connected
with the finding of the body, or of the property or with the state of locality, or the
department etc. of the accused, must be proved by the evidence of the witnesses
who saw what they described, or by the police officer who conducted the
investigation.

14-D. Identity of body and clothes.- In cases of homicide evidence
should be taken to identify the body of the person killed, to prove the custody of the
body from the moment it is discovered to the time of its delivery to the Medical Officer
for post-mortem examination, and to show that it has not been interfered with during
its conveyance from the scene of death to the place of examination. Clothes and
ornaments found on the body should similarly be identified by proper witnesses
produced in Court and their removal from the body and custody should be proved.

14-E. Custody of other articles.- Similar care is often required in tracing
the custody of prisoner's substances, personal food, blood-stained clothes etc. The
evidence should never leave it doubtful as to what person or persons have had
charge of such articles throughout the various stages of the inquiry if such doubt can
be cleared up. This is especially necessary in the cases of articles sent to the
Chemical Examiner. The person who packs, seals and dispatches such articles
should invariably be examined.

14-F Every article to be produced.- Clothes, weapons, money,
ornaments, food and every article which forms a part of the circumstantial evidence
should be produced in Court and their connection with the case and identity should
be proved by witnesses.


--- Page 473 ---
201

14-G. Plans.-(1) In all cases where a plan of the locality is material, such
a plan should be sent up with the record. It must, however, be remembered that
plans as well as police reports are not evidence until they have been sworn in Court
by the persons who prepared them or who of their personal knowledge can depose
to their correctness.

2) In all case where the decision turns upon topography or the position
and construction of a dwelling, a plan, drawn to scale accurately representing the
place or dwelling should be proved by the person who prepared it and it should be
marked and recorded as a exhibit.

14-H. Exhibits.- All exhibits should be marked with a letter or numbers.
Articles which are produced in evidence should have a label attached to them
bearing a number, and that number should be quoted throughout the record
wherever any such articles is referred to and should be distinctly marked as
“admitted or not admitted”. If the exhibits have already been assigned numbers by
the police, that series of numbers should be mentioned to avoid confusion.

A printed label should be affixed or attached to each exhibit containing the
following particulars:

(i) Number of exhibit

(ii) Produced by

(iii) Admitted(Signature of Court)

(iv) Date

(v) Case

(vi) Description of exhibits.

The Sessions Judge, should see that these entries are properly made.

15. Use of previous statements of witnesses. In using previous
statement be police to discredit witnesses, careful attention should be paid to the
provision s of section 162 of the Code of Criminal Procedure and section 140 of
Qanun-e-Shahadat, 1984 (Also see Chapter 12 of this Volume, Police Diaries, etc.)]


--- Page 474 ---
202

16. ***[Omitted]

17. ***[Omitted]

*[18. Procedure.- The procedure to be observed by the High Court and the
Courts of Sessions in the trial of cases triable by them is contained in Chapter XXII-A
of the Code of Criminal Procedure.

19. Public prosecution. In every trial before a Court of Session, initiated
upon a police report, the prosecution is to be conducted by the public Prosecutor.
(Section 265-A Cr.P.C.)

20. Procedure in case of previous conviction.- In a case where,
by reason of a previous conviction, the accused has been charged under section 221
of the Code, the court after finding the accused guilty of the offence charged and
recording a conviction, shall record the plea of the accused in relation to such part of
the charge; and if the accused admits the previous conviction, the court may pass a
sentence but if the accused does not admit it, the court may take evidence in respect
of the previous conviction, record a finding and then pass a sentence according to
law. (Section 265-1 Cr. P.C).

21. The statement of a witness duly recorded under section 164, if made
in the presence of the accused and if he had notice of it and was given opportunity of
cross-examination, may, in the discretion of the Court, if such witness is produced
and examined, be treated as evidence in the case for all purposes subject to the
provision s of the “Qanun-e-Shahadat, 1984(section 265-J Cr.P.C).]

22. ***[Omitted]

23. ***[Omitted]

24. ***[Omitted]

25. ***[Omitted]

26. ***[Omitted]

*[27. Judgment should be pronounced in open court by Sessions
Judge.- The judgment should be pronounced by the Sessions Judge either
immediately after the trial or on some future day of which due notice must be


--- Page 475 ---
203

given to the parties or their pleaders. Sentence should be passed in open Court and
then explained to the prisoner. Section 367(1) of the Code of Criminal Procedure
clearly lays down that a judgment shall be dated and signed by the presiding officer
in open Court at the time of pronouncing it. Under section 17(4) of the Code, the
Sessions Judge may, for the reasons given, make provision for disposal of any
urgent application by the Additional Sessions Judge, but there is no authority for the
proposition that the power given to a Sessions Judge under section 17(4) extends to
delegation of the duty to pronounce judgments. Sessions judges must arrange to
pronounce judgment in original cases before proceeding on leave if a delay in
pronouncing judgment is likely to cause hardship to any person under trial.]

28. Judgment to be written before announcing.--The judgment must
always be written and delivered before sentence is pronounced. It is illegal to pass
sentence at the termination of a trial and to postpone the writing of the judgment to a
future occasion. All cases must continue to be shown on the pending file until a
judgment and sentence are written and delivered.

29. Copy to be forwarded to District Magistrate.-- In cases tried by a
Court of Session, the Court shall forward to the District Magistrate a copy of the
judgment in addition to the copy of the finding and sentence required by section 373
of the Code of Criminal Procedure.

Where there has been a complete acquittal of all or any of the accused by a
Court of Session, the Sessions judge should, at the time of pronouncing the
judgment, also forward a facsimile copy thereof to the District Magistrate, in whose
jurisdiction the trial was held, so as to enable him to consider whether or not an
appeal against acquittal is to be recommended. The stenographer should be required
to prepare an extra carbon copy, for this purpose, while transcribing the judgment
dictated to him by the Sessions Judge.

In case in which an accused charged with murder receives a sentence for
*[imprisonment] for life or is tried for an offence under section 302, Pakistan Penal
Code, but is convicted under section *[318], of the said Code, the Sessions Judge
should follow the same procedure.

30. Documents to be forwarded to High Court when sentence
requires confirmation.—If the sentence is one which has to be referred to the


--- Page 476 ---
204

High Court for confirmation, under section 374 of the Code of Criminal Procedure,
the record of the Court of Session, with the exception of the final judgment, should be
submitted in original. In addition to the type-written copy of the judgment which takes
the place of the original 9retained in the Court of Session) two extra type-written
copies will be forwarded for use in the High Court together with type-written copies of
the following documents on the Sessions record:-

[Q))] First report at police station (if any) in Urdu only.

2) Statement under section 364, Criminal Procedure Code.

3) Examination under section 364 by the Magistrate.

(4) ***[Omitted]

(5) Record of evidence in Court of Session with any further examination undr

section 364, Criminal Procedure Code, and altered charge if any.

(6) Material documentary evidence, if any.

(7) ***[Omitted]

Note:- Photographs and bahis should be treated as “documentary evidence” and

should be marked with letter like other documents, and should always be sent to

the High Court.]

31. Reference to High Court *[shall] be in prescribed form.—The coy
of the final judgment shall be signed by the Sessions Judge himself and not by the
clerk or other officer of the Court on his behalf, as certifying such copy to be a true
copy. The reference to the High Court for confirmation of the death sentence should
be made in the prescribed form.

32. In death sentence accused *[shall ] be informed about period for
appeal.—In all cases in which a person is sentenced to death, the Sessions Judge
shall as directed in section 371(3) of the Code of Criminal Procedure, *[inform] the
condemned man that he must file his appeal within seven days.

32-A ***[Omitted].


--- Page 477 ---
205

33. Sessions Judge to ask accused and promptly deliver if he
requires a copy of judgment.—In order to prevent delay, the Sessions Judge
should, on delivering judgment, ask the accused if he desires to have a copy or
translation of the judgment, to which he is entitled under section 371*[(3)] of the Code
for the purposes of appeal. The Sessions Judge should record in the judgment that
this has been done, and when necessary, should furnish the copy or translation
without delay.

34. Endorsements on copy sent to accused.—The copy or translation
of the judgment required by the accused should be sent to him by the Session Judge
with the following endorsements, namely-

(a) the date of the dispatch of the copy or translation of the judgment;

(b) notice that the appeal must be presented within seven days from the date
of sentences (exclusive of that date and of the time which has been spent
in supplying him with the copy of the judgment) mentioning the latest
dates on which his appeal can be filed;

(c) intimation that, on the expiry of seven days, the record will be sent to the
High Court, and that the hearing of the reference with a view to
confirmation of sentence (under section 374 of the Code) will take place
about one month after dispatch of the copy.

*[35. Record to be sent to High Court soon after period of appeal has
expired.- When the condemned person has taken a copy of the judgment, the
record should not be forwarded to the High Court until after the expiration of the total
period within which his appeal can be legally filed, i.e., a period of seven days from
the date of sentence plus the time spent in supplying the copy.]

35-A. ***[Omitted].

*[36. Notice to accused and Advocate General on receipt of record.- In
the High Court immediately on receipt of the record, notice shall issue to the accused
in jail informing him that the proceedings will be considered, with a view to an order
of confirmation being made under section 374 of the Code of Criminal Procedure
and the appeal (if any) be heard, on date to be entered in the notice. Similar
notice will also be issued to the Advocate General when an


--- Page 478 ---
206
appeal is preferred. Unless records are promptly submitted, it will not be possible to
carry out the above standing order, and Sessions Judges are accordingly required to
pay strict attention to the instruction here given.]

37. Copy of High Court judgment to be sent to Sessions Judge.--
After the sentence has been confirmed or other order has been made by the High
Court, the Registrar will return the record, with a duplicate or an attested copy of the
order under the seal of the Court, to the Sessions Judge, who will take the steps
prescribed by section 381 of the Code of Criminal procedure to cause the sentence
or order to be carried into effect.

38. Record to be sent to Government when death sentence has been
confirmed.-- The record of every case, as prepared for the use of the High Court, in
which the sentence of death has been confirmed by the High Court, should as soon
as orders have been passed confirming the death sentence, be forwarded to the
Provincial Government, together with the Court's order thereon, and the English file
of the Sessions Court.

39. Death for execution of death sentence.-- In issuing warrants for the
execution of sentences of death, Sessions Judges should as directed by Government
fix a date for the execution of the sentence that is not less than fourteen or more than
twenty-one days from the date of the issue of the warrant.

40. Record to be sent to Government when a woman has been
sentenced to *[imprisonment] for infanticide.--***[...] In every case in which a
sentence of *[imprisonment] for life is passed on a woman for the murder of her infant
child, and the sentence is not appealed against, the record of the case shall, after the
expiration of the period allowed for appeal, be forwarded to the High Court for
submission to Government, with a view to the consideration of the question whether
any commutation or reduction of the sentence should be allowed.

41. Weapons to be sent to the High Court- (i) All weapons with which
injuries are alleged to have been inflicted by the accused, whether the nature of the
injuries is in dispute or not, shall be forwarded to the High Court when a case is
referred by a Sessions Judge for confirmation of a sentence of death. In order
to secure that this will be done, the Sessions Judge shall record a note at the foot
of his judgment stating what weapons are to be forwarded to the


--- Page 479 ---
207
High Court and he should see that they are forwarded when the records are
dispatched.

(ii) In a case in which a convicted person is called upon to show cause
why his sentence should not be enhanced to death similar weapons are required in
the High Court, but will not be forwarded to the High Court until the High Court calls
for them.

42. Blood-stained clothes sent to High Court.—(i) All garments of an
accused persons which are proved to have been stained with human-blood and have
been made exhibits shall be forwarded along with the record to the High Court when
a case is referred by a Sessions Judge for confirmation of a sentence of death. In
order to secure that this is done, the Sessions Judge shall record a note at the foot of
his judgment staining what garments are to be forwarded to the High Court.

(ii) In a case in which a convicted person called upon to show cause why
his sentence should not be enhanced to death similar garments are required in the
High Court, but will not be forwarded to the High Court, until the High Court calls for
them.

43. Exhibited articles- Exhibited articles, which are not documents and
are not referred to in paragraphs 41 and 42 of this Chapter, should not be sent to the
High Court, unless the High Court calls for them, or unless the Sessions Judge
considers that a particular exhibit will be required in the High Court, in which case he
should record a note at the foot of his judgment that the exhibit should be forwarded
to the High Court in the event of an appeal.


--- Page 480 ---
208
PARTC. — PROVIDING AN ACCUSED PERSON
WITH LEGAL ADVICE.

*[1. Presiding officer to report whether accused can afford to engage
counsel.- If the accused is unrepresented in a Sessions case and cannot afford to
engage a counsel, the Sessions Judge shall make arrangement to employ a counsel
at Government expense. Counsel in such cases should be appointed well in time to
enable him to study the documents mentioned in section 265-C of the Code of
Criminal Procedure.

2. Counsel for accused to be provided by Sessions Judge.- When
the accused is a woman prisoner who is unable to afford a counsel, the presiding
officer on an application made by her shall make arrangement to employ a counsel at
Government expense to defend her in all offences except those triable in a summary
way under chapter XXII of the Code of Criminal Procedure.]

3. Fees of Counsel.-- The legal practitioner thus engaged by the
Court trying the case shall receive the same fees as private practitioners engaged
under the note to rule X(2) of the rules regulating the conduct of business in the Law
Department, and the fees shall be entered in the same register and drawn in the
same manner as is prescribed for such practitioners.


--- Page 481 ---
209
CHAPTER 25
APPEAL AND REVISION—CRIMINAL
PART A.—ADMISSION OF PETITIONS.

1. Persons competent to lodge petition.-- A petition of appeal or
revision on behalf of a person convicted by a Criminal Court or an application for
transfer shall not be admitted by a Criminal Court, unless it is either submitted
through the jail authorities, or is presented by the convicted person himself, or by
some person authorized by a ***[...] power of attorney to present it on his behalf; and
a petition for revision by a complainant shall not be admitted unless it is presented by
the complainant or by some person authorized by a ***[...] power of attorney to
present in on behalf of the complainant;

Provided that a person confined to jail shall be allowed to appoint his pleader,
whether falling under sub-clauses (1) or (2) of clauses (r) section 4 of the Code of
Criminal Procedure, by means of a printed form, signed by him, and attested by the
Superintendent of the Jail, and that no stamp shall be required on this form.

Note:- A specimen of the form is given in the Appendix attached to this part.

2. Authentication of petitions written by jail officials for prisoners.—
Petition of appeal and revision, written by Jail officials on behalf of prisoners, shall be
authenticated by the Superintendent of the Jail and every such petition received from
the Superintendent of a Jail shall be examined upon receipt, and if it has not been
authenticated by the Superintendent, it shall be returned forthwith for this to be done.

3. Petitions received by post—A petition of appeal or for revision
received by post otherwise than through Jail should, if possible, be returned to the
person from whom it was received by post ‘bearing’.

4. Pleader engaged by agent.—When an agent has been duly
appointed by a convict to file an appeal or revision, a pleader engaged by the latter
shall be required to file a power-of-attorney.

5. Court-fees on appeals.—No Court-fees shall be charged on appeals
preferred on behalf of a prisoner by a pleader or by agent.


--- Page 482 ---
210
6. [Omitted]. ; 3
APPENDIX ]
Form of declaration by a person confined to Jail appointing a pleader
for presenting an appeal or revision on his behalf in a Criminal Court. 3
IN The Court 0f-=a-ememmmmm meme
Appella i
y Petition
versus i
il)
The STATE bicameral vee Channeling ibe lid SEE
Respondent. £4
Charge UNAer SECON ~-msrm meme ee eee e ee ecnenaen
SOMONE meme renee eee
Appeal 4
weeommeeeomeeeeaefrom the OFdEr Of —--eemorcommmm irre
Magistrate 7
Revision a
J 1
EET SCN RRP SO 18) fon Pas
Ba oN (EE (N14 [21 J) SE
----moeeeeeescsee, NOW @ prisoner in the Jail at-------------------------——- hereby
authorise ----=---------------_ to file an appeal in the above case on my behalf and
to act, plead and take all other steps in furtherance thereof. . 3
Signatures 3
or &
thumb-impression fi
of the Appellant «-------meemeeeeoeeneee i
or Petitioner 5


--- Page 483 ---
211
Date ------mmeemermeee reas B
1 Station------====sssueecreeens
g Attestation by the Superintendent of Jail-----<--c-eseeemmomeeeeeee
The above declaration has been made Lo
—-=-===-- Prisoner NO.-------—--e-oecoee. at present confined in the-----------ce--
------ Jail which is under my charge as Superintendent. The contents of the
declaration have been read over to the prisoner who admits them to be correct.
Let this be given to his pleader for necessary action.
i SigNAIUIeS-=---mmmmemmmmmeeceece acne ce ocean
1 Designation-=--------ssesse eee
Date--mmmme eee
StALION meme


--- Page 484 ---
212
3 _ PART B. -- THE SUBMISSION OF RECORDS TO 9
THE HIGH COURT FOR PURPOSES OF REVISION. **“[OMITTED]
i
. i


--- Page 485 ---
213
PART C. —- PROCEDURE IN HEARING
CRIMINAL APPEALS

Introductory.—The attention of all Criminal Appellate Courts subordinate to
the High Court is invited to the procedure laid down in sections 421 to 423 of the
Code of Criminal Procedure.

2. Summary disposal, appellant to be hear.—If, on a perusal of a
petition of appeal and the copy of the judgment or order appealed against, and after
hearing the appellant or his counsel, or authorized agent, if he appears, the Appellate
Court considers that there is no sufficient ground for questioning the correctness of
the decision or interfering with the sentence or order appealed against, it may reject
the appeal summarily. In acting under section 421 of the Code of Criminal Procedure,
the Court may, and when the records are readily forthcoming ordinarily should, call
for and examine the proceedings of the lower Court, but is not bound to do so. When
a petition of appeal is presented by the appellant in person or by his counsel or duly
authorized agent, the Court should of course, intimate to such person the day on
which it will be prepared to hear hi, if the appeal is not brought forward for hearing
on the day on which it is presented or if the hearing is adjourned.

*[3. Notice of date of hearing. If the Appellate Court decides to hear the
appeal, notice of the day fixed for hearing should be given to the appellant or his
pleader, and notice must also be given to such office as the Provincial Government
may appoint in this behalf. The District Magistrate and in certain cases the Advocate
General are the officers to receive, on behalf of the State, notice of the time and
place fixed for the hearing of appeals admitted to a hearing under section 422
of the Code of Criminal Procedure. Attention is also invited to notifications in the
same part directing the notice of the hearing of certain appeals to be given to
the heads of the Railway Administration and the Postmaster General, Punjab.
The notice of the appellant or his pleader need not be a formal notice in writing,
if either of them is present in person when the day of hearing is fixed. It will
be seen from section 4(1) (r) of the Code that the term “Pleader” includes (1)
an Advocate, a Vakil, and an Attorney of a High


--- Page 486 ---
214
Court so authorized; and (2) any other person appointed with the permission of the
Court, to act in such proceedings.

4. The order fixing the date should state under what section the
hearing is.- To distinguish between appeals rejected under section 421 and appeals
in which the sentence is confirmed after hearing under section 423 the order fixing
the date should distinctly state whether or not the hearing is to be under section 423
of the Code.

5. Appeal should not be dismissed in default.- A criminal appeal must
be disposed of on its merits as it cannot be dismissed in default.]

6. If appeal cannot be rejected summarily it should be admitted to
hearing.—The practice which prevails in some Courts of continuing ***[...] in cases
in which it is found necessary to direct a further inquiry under section 428, is
irregular. If it appears that an appeal cannot be properly rejected on the record as it
stands, it should be admitted to a hearing under section 422.

*[7. Contents of judgment.- The judgment of an Appellate Court should
contain the points for determination, the decision thereon and the grounds for that
decision. (See section 367, and 424 of the Code of Criminal Procedure. )]

8. ***[Omitted].

9. Remand.—Whenever a criminal appeal is sent back for further inquiry
under section 428 of the Code at Criminal Procedure, the Appellate Court should
invariably fix a date for re-hearing the case, taking care that the date so fixed is in
each instance sufficiently remote to allow of a return being made to the order of
remand, and that the case is duly entered under such date in the appropriate
register.


--- Page 487 ---
215
PART D. —- NOTICE OF APPEAL

In railway cases notice to District Magistrate and Railway authority.—
The following notifications under section 422 of the Code of Criminal Procedure,
prescribing the officers to whom notice is to be given of an appeal which is not
summarily rejected, are re-printed for information and guidance.

1.—PUNJAB GOVERNMENT NOTIFICATION NO. 172,
DATED THE 28™ JANUARY, 1891.

With reference to section 422 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1882,
prescribing that any Appellate Court which does not reject an appeal summarily shall
cause notice to be given to such officers as the Provincial Government may appoint
in this behalf, the Hon'ble the Lieutenant-Governor (now Governor) is pleased to
direct that in the case of an appeal preferred by a Railway employee in a case in
which he has been convicted of an offence committed in his capacity of Railway
servant, the Appellate Court shall cause notice to be given of the time and place of
hearing of such appeal to the Head of the Railway Administration concerned as well
as to the District Magistrate as directed in Punjab Government Notification No. 108-
597, dated 8" February, 1883.

1I.—PUNJAB GOVERNMENT NOTIFICATION NO. 206,
DATED THE 10™ FEBRUARY, 1905.

Postal cases. Notice to District Magistrate and Postmaster General.—
With reference to section 422 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1898, prescribing
that any Appellate Court which does not reject an appeal summarily shall cause
notice to be given to such officer as the Provincial Government may appoint in this
behalf, the Hon'ble the Lieutenant-Governor (now governor) is pleased to direct that
in the case of an appeal preferred by a Postal employee in a case in which he has
been convicted of an offence committed in his capacity of a Postal servant, the
Appellate Court shall cause notice to be given of the time and place of hearing of
such appeal to the Postmaster-General, Punjab and North-west Frontier Province, as
well as to the District Magistrate concerned, as directed in Punjab Government
Notification No. 108-597, dated 8" February, 1883.


--- Page 488 ---
216
1I.—PUNJAB GOVERNMENT NOTIFICATION NO. 1110-J-,
37/13020/HOME-JUDICIAL, DATED THE 1°" APRIL, 1937.

Notice to Advocate-General and District Magistrate in other cases.—With
reference to section 422 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1898, the Governor of
the Punjab is pleased to direct, in supersession of Punjab Government notification
No. 1764, dated the 7" December, 1898, that in the case of appeals other than those
which lie to the District Magistrate or other Magistrate empowered to hear appeals
under section 407 of the Code, the Appellate Court shall cause notice of the time and
place of hearing to be given-

[Q))] to the Advocate-General, Punjab, in all cases in which the sentence is
one of death, imprisonment for life, or imprisonment for a term not less
than ten years;

2) to the District Magistrate in other cases.

IV.—PUNJAB GOVERNMENT NOTIFICATION NO. 1776-JJ-50/29746,

DATED THE 30™ MAY, 1950.

In pursuance of the powers conferred by section 422 of the Code of Criminal
Procedure, 1898, the Governor of the Punjab is pleased to direct in partial
modification of Punjab Government Notification No. 1110-J-37/13020, dated the 1°
April 1937, that in cases challanced by the Pakistan Special Police Establishment,
the Appellate Court shall cause notice of the time and place of hearing of the appeal
to be given to the Superintendent of Police, Special Police Estabishment.

V.—GOVERNMENT OF WEST PAKISTAN, HOME DEPARTMENT

NOTIFICATION NO.JUDL-1-4(11)/60, DATED THE 8™ AUGUST, 1961.

In pursuance of section 422 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1898 and in
continuation of Government of West Pakistan, Home Department notification No.
Jud;-1-4(11)/60, dated the 21%" June 1960 (hereinafter referred to as the said
notification), the Governor of West Pakistan is pleased to appoint—

(i) the Governor of State Bank of Pakistan; and


--- Page 489 ---
217

(ii) the Secretary to the Government of Pakistan, Ministry of Finance,

as the Officer to whom (in addition to the Officers to whom notice is to be
given in compliance with the said notification) notice in the matter of
appeal made to the High Court of West Pakistan against conviction
under the Foreign Exchange Regulation Act, 1947 shall be given by
the said Court, of the time and place at which such appeal will be
heard.


--- Page 490 ---
218
PART E. — APPEALS FROM ORDERS OF ACQUITTAL

Appeal to be filed in certain cases.—Sessions Judge and District
Magistrates should bear in mind the following order of the Provincial Government
regarding appeals against acquittals under section 417 of the Criminal Procedure
Code.

The Provincial Government will not direct an appeal—

[Q))] where the case is trifling in itself and the acquittal involves no erroneous
principles of law, the correction of which is of public importance;

2) where, however serious or otherwise important the case, the legal guilt of
the accused is fairly questionable or the evidenc admits of any reasonable
doubt, and the Court has considered and weighed it with impartiality,
intelligence and care;

3) merely on account of the production of fresh evidence after the acquittal,
or

(4) where there is no distinct probability that the appeal will result in an order
of re-trial.

2. Travelling expenses for the accused.-- In cases where it is
decided that an appeal out to be filed, the ***[...] Government considers that the
accused should have legal assistance at his trial and with this end in view, the
Judges are pleased to direct that District Magistrate on receipt of a notice for service
upon the person acquitted to show cause why he should not be convicted, shall, if he
is satisfied that the accused is unable because of poverty to proceed to the High
Court at Lahore, provide him with sufficient funds to enable him to do so should he so
desire and, in the even of the apprehension of the person concerned and his custody
in a lock-up, arrange that the accused (should he so desire and should he not be
represented by counsel of his own choice) be conveyed to the High Court at Lahore,
for the purpose of attending the hearing of the appeal against his acquittal.

3. Legal assistance to the accused.—With the same object in view,
namely, to give every reasonable protection to the defence, a reasonable fee to


--- Page 491 ---
219

enable him to engage counsel, if such is his intention, shall be paid by the
Government to the accused in all such cases, whatever may be the result of the
appeal and whether he is or is not in attendance when the appeal is heard. He would
be at liberty to supplement this himself in order to obtain counsel of superior caliber,
should he so desire. The payment of the fee herein referred to shall be arranged and
paid by the District Magistrate concerned in consultation with the *[Solicitor] to
Government, Punjab, in the form of a letter of credit which the accused person's
counsel can cash after actual appearance in the High Court.

4. Legal assistance in cases of enhancement of sentence.-- In
the case of an application for enhancement of sentence made by the Provincial
Government the same procedure should be followed in the matter of provision of
counsel for the accused as is prescribed in paragraph 3 above.

*[5. High Court can alter the conviction from Section 304 to 302 only
when Government appeals.—In this connection it should be noted that ***[...] when
a person is tried for an offence under section 302, Pakistan Penal Code, but is
convicted under Section *[318] of *[the said Code] and sentenced to a term of
imprisonment, the Sessions Judge's order amounts to acquittal under section 302.
On application to a High Court for revision of sentence, the High Court has no
jurisdiction in view of the provisions contained in clause (4) of section 439 Criminal
Procedure Code, to alter the conviction to one under section 302 and sentence the
accused to death. In such cases an appeal by the Provincial Government or by an
aggrieved person under section 417 of the Code is required to give the High Court
jurisdiction, if it is desired to alter the conviction.

6. Requisition for records for scrutiny when appeal for
acquittal is contemplated.—For securing the original records of trial court for
scrutiny in cases where an appeal against an acquittal, etc., is under
contemplation the following procedure should be observed:-

(a) Where there has been a complete acquittal by the Court of
Session of all the accused in a case, the Sessions Judge should, on
a certificate furnished by ~~ the ~~ District Magistrate that an
Appeal from acquittal is in contemplation, hand over to the


--- Page 492 ---
220
District Magistrate the sessions record of the case and such other connected
papers in the custody of the Sessions Court as the District Magistrate may
require.
(b) In cases where some of the accused have been convicted and others
acquitted by the Sessions Court and no appeals against convictions are
pending the procedure laid down in (a) above should be followed, but where
appeals from convictions are pending, the records should, on receipt of a
certificate from the District Magistrate that an appeal from an acquittal is in
contemplation, be forwarded to the High Court.
(c) When sending records to District Magistrates, Sessions Judges
should see that the Sessions records of the case are complete in all respects
and include the ***[...] Police papers if they are in the possession of the
Sessions Court.


--- Page 493 ---
221
PART F. — APPEALS IN SCRUTINY CASES..."*[Omitted]


--- Page 494 ---
222
PART G. — SUPPLY OF COPIES TO APPELLANTS AND
APPLICANTS FOR REVISION, AND TRANSMISSION OF
APPEALS AND APPLICATIONS OF PRISONERS TO
APPELLATE AND REVISIONAL COURTS

Introductory.—The particular attention of Sessions Judges and District
Magistrates is invited to the following directions relating to the supply of copies to
appellants and applicants for revision, and for the transmission of appeals and
applications of prisoners to the Courts to which; they are addressed. Superintendents
of Jails have been supplied with these directions to guide them in dealing with
application s for copies made by prisoners under their custody.

*[2. Appeal to be accompanied by copy of judgment or order. Free
supply of copy in certain cases.- Section 419 of the Code of Criminal Procedure
requires every petition of appeal presented to a Criminal Court to be accompanied
(unless the Court to which it is presented otherwise directs) by a copy of the
judgment or order appealed against. This copy (or a translation of the judgment
where the accused desires to have a translation), unless the appellant has been
convicted in any case tried summarily or for an offence under any law other than the
Pakistan Penal Code, must, under the provisions of section 371 of the Code, be
given free of cost.

3. Application for revision to be accompanied by copy of judgment.
Free supply of copy to accused in warrant cases.- Similarly, application for
revisions will not be received unless accompanied by copies of the judgment or
judgments impeached, or unless the Court, otherwise directs under section 419, of
the Code of Criminal Procedure. If it is intended that the Court should give such
directions, it should be stated clearly why the prisoner is unable to furnish the copy.
When the applicant has been convicted in any case not being a case tried summarily
or where the accused has been committed of an offence other than the Pakistan
Penal Code, ***[...] he is entitled, if he has not appealed, to get a copy of the
judgment of the Court, which convicted him free of charge and if he has appealed, to
get a free copy of the judgment of the Appellate Court, or a translation of such
judgment, where he desires to have a translation (sections 371 and 424 of the Code
of Criminal Procedure). If he has appealed, the applican6t is not entitled to a second
free copy of the judgment of the original Court.]


--- Page 495 ---
223

3-A. Free supply of copies to jail prisoner.—The High Court has decided
that notwithstanding anything contained in paragraphs 2 and 3, when the accused is
in jail, a copy of the judgment or order may be supplied free of cost if he or his agent
requires it for purposes of filing an appeal or petition for revision and not otherwise,
provided that a second copy of the judgment or order of the original Court shall not
be supplied free of cost for purposes of revision if he has already obtained one for
the purposes of filing an appeal.

3-B. A copy of the judgment of the court of Session, in appeal or revision,
in every criminal case in which, as a result of the decision of the Sessions Judge, any
convicted person is required to undergo imprisonment for a period of not les than two
years, shall be supplied free of cost to the Superintendent of the Jail concerned
within one month from the date of judgment or order.

4. Petitions of appeal preferred by prisoners.—Petitions of appeal
preferred by prisoners through the Superintendent of the Jail should be sent direct to
the Appellate Court, as required by Section 420 of the Code of Criminal Procedure.
The Appellate Court will itself requisition the records from the Record Room.

5. Typewritten copies of record and judgment to be sent to high
Court. — Whenever the appeal of a person, convicted by a Court of Session is
forwarded to the High Court, particular care should be taken to see that the petition of
appeal is accompanied by a typewritten copy, in English, of the whole proceedings of
the Sessions trial. When the sentence is one of death or transportation for life, two
typewritten copies of the record should be sent.

6. Extra copies to be prepared in advance by stenographers- So far
as possible, stenographers in typing from dictation, evidence and judgments in all
classes of cases should prepare by duplication all extra copies likely to be required
for this purpose, as will as for supplying the accused or any other person requiring a
free copy. This should avoid the preparation of fresh copies by the Copy Clerk.
Similarly these copies should be duplicated when they are likely to be required by
any subordinate Court.

7. ***[Omitted]

8. ***[Omitted]

9. **%[Omitted]


--- Page 496 ---
224
PART H. -- TRANSMISSION OF APPELLATE COURTS’
ORDERS TO LOWER COURTS.

Rules re transmission of Appellate Court’s order to Lower Courts.
The following rules should be observed in regard to the transmission of
Appellate Court's orders to Lower Courts: -

RULES

1. The Sessions Judge will send copies of all his judgments to
district Magistrate.

2. The District Magistrate will transmit the copies to the original
Court for information and return direct to the Record keeper, to whom the
original records will be sent at once.

3. The District Magistrate, Additional District Magistrate will send
copies of all their judgments on appeal to the original Court for information and
return direct to the Record-keeper, to whom the original record will be sent at
once.

4. Appellate Courts will attach to the original record the following
forms:-

Date. ------------

Copy of judgment despatched by District Magistrate. oh .

Copy of judgment despatched by Additional District Magistrate. .. gs

Copy of judgment received by Record keeper. .- .

is

(Translation-----------——-..........attached)

is not

(It will be simpler to have only one form)

8. (a) The Record-keeper will maintain a running list prepared from
the above form of all cases in which copies of judgments have been sent out.
When the copies of judgments are returned to him by the original Courts, he
will add them to the records, fill in the date of receipt, and strike those cases off
his running list.


--- Page 497 ---
225
(b) If copies are not returned within 10 days of despatch he will issuc
a reminder (which should be on a printed form), and if that is ineffective. report
the matter to the despatching Court. ¢
(c) The running list will be in the following form:-
Name of case. Date of despatch Date of reminder,
if any.
(d) The reminder will be in the following printed form:-
To the Court Of-mmssmmmmmmeaeeane
A copy of the judgment of the-----------seaeeeeeeo—- was despatched to
you by the-----c---emeeeeeeeoeeeen-oeneeeeeeeeaeeccand. has not vet
been received by the Record-keeper. Please return at once.
Dated. Record-keeper.
6. Officers presiding over subordinate Courts held at District
Headquarters. if in any particular case they desire to see their original record.
will be allowed to call for it provided that it must not leave their Court room.
kA ***{Omitted].


--- Page 498 ---
226
CHAPTER 26
TRANFER OF CRIMINAL CASES.
PART A. — Transfer Of Criminal Cases.

*[1. Power of High Court- Re transfer of cases.- Under section 526
of the Code of Criminal Procedure the High Court has power to transfer any case
from one Court subordinate to it to another on any of the grounds specified therein.
This power for transfer extends to all classes of cases.

2. Sessions Judges power to transfer.- Under section 528 of the
Code, Sessions Judges also have general power to withdraw3 any case from any
Judicial Magistrate and to refer it for enquiry or trial to any other Judicial Magistrate
competent to inquire into or try the same.

The Sessions Judge may also, at any time before the trial of a case or the
hearing of an appeal has commenced before an Additional Sessions Judge, recall
the case or appeal and may try the case or hear the appeal himself or may make it
over to another Court for trial or hearing, as the case may be.

Sessions Judge may empower any Judicial Magistrate who has taken
cognizance of any case to transfer such case for trial to any other Judicial Magistrate
in his District any such magistrate may dispose of the case accordingly.

2-A. Under section 528-A, the District Magistrate may withdraw or recall
any case which he has made over to any Executive Magistrate subordinate to him
and may either try the case himself or make it over for trial to any other Executive
Magistrate subordinate to him.

Any District Magistrate may empower any Executive Magistrate subordinate
to him who has taken cognizance of any case to transfer such case for inquiry or trial
to any other Executive Magistrate in his district who is competent under the Code to
try the accused and such Magistrate may dispose of the case accordingly.

It is not obligatory to stay the proceedings or adjourn the hearing for
the purpose of an application under section 528. Applications for transfer should
be promptly disposed of. Notice to the opposite party is not obligatory under


--- Page 499 ---
227
section 528 but is advisable except when the application appears to be frivolous on
the face of it and is summarily rejected. Sessions Judges should carefully enquire
into the grounds on which the application is based and deal with the same, seriatim,
in his order.]

3. Cases triable in more than one district. Forum to be determined
with regard to public convenience.—The necessity for transfer of a case may arise
purely on grounds of jurisdiction or in the ends of justice. As regards the former,
sections 179 to 183 of the Code should be consulted, when a case is to be instituted
in Court. In carrying out the provisions of these sections, cases which are triable in
more than one district should not be transferred unnecessarily from one district to
another. A Magistrate should act under these sections solely with reference to the
public convenience. Ordinarily, the proper district for the enquiry into, and trial of
offences falling under those sections would be the district in which the witnesses
could, with the least inconvenience, attend.

4. Procedure when a Magistrate thinks the case should be tried in
another district.—If a Magistrate is of opinion that it would be more convenient if an
enquiry or trial were held in another district he should at once address the District
Magistrate.

If the District Magistrate considers the transfer of the case to another district
desirable, he will forward the paper to the District Magistrate of the latter district. If
the District Magistrate so addressed concurs, the case should be **[referred to the
High Court and] transferred to that district accordingly. If he dissents, the Magistrate
should either proceed with the enquiry **[or trial], or refer the question to the High
Court, *[which] will, under the provisions of section 185 of the Code of Criminal
Procedure, decide in which district the enquiry or trial should be held.

5. Reasons to be given for proposal to transfer—When a transfer is
proposed by any Magistrate his proposal should always be accompanied by a short
statement of the case and of the reasons for making the proposal.

6. Common grounds on which applications for transfer are made.—
Applications for transfer of criminal cases are frequently made by accused persons
on the allegation that such transfer is necessary in the interests


--- Page 500 ---
228

of justice. The most common grounds on which such applications for transfer are
made are (a) that the Judge or Magistrate is personally interested in the case, or (b)
that he is connected with one or the other party to the case by relationship,
friendship, etc., and is, therefore, likely to be partial, or (c) that he has already formed
or expressed an opinion on the subject matter of the enquiry or trial, or (d) that he
has conducted himself in such a manner that no fair or impartial enquiry or trial can
be expected from hi.

*[7. Remarks on those grounds. Cases of local bodies with which
Magistrate is connected.- As regards (a), the provisions of section 556 of the Code
which prohibit a Judge or Magistrate from trying certain cases without the permission
of the Appellate Court should be carefully borne in mind. The section is founded on
the maxim that no man can be judge of his own cause or give judgment concerning
his own rights. The general rule as to disqualification is, that a person who, by reason
of his interest, pecuniary or personal, is likely to have a bias in the matter of the
prosecution, ought not to sit as a Judge in the case. The interest, however, must be a
substantial interest giving rise to a real bias, and not merely to the possibility of a
bias. The question frequently arises as to whether the connection of a Magistrate
with a local body disqualifies him from trying a case to which that body is party. This
must be decided on the facts of each case.]

8. Connection of the Magistrate with a party.—In cases where the
Judge or Magistrate happens to be connected with one or the other party by
relationship, friendship, etc., it is advisable for him to move the proper authority at
once to transfer the case to some other Court; for howsoever straightforward and
impartial he may be, there is always the danger of his actions being regarded with
suspicion and misinterpreted. An immediate transfer of the case would avoid the
possibility of an application for transfer being made at a later stage and consequent
delay in the disposal of the case.

9. Cases in which Magistrate has already expressed his opinion.-
The same course would be advisable in cases in which the Judge or Magistrate has
already formed and expressed a definite opinion on the material issues requiring
decision, against the accused concerned.


--- Page 501 ---
229

10. Cases wherein a party apprehends that he will not have a fair
trial. —As regards the last category, the presiding officers of Courts should carefully
bear in mind that it is their duty not only to be thoroughly impartial, but to conduct
themselves in such a manner as not to give rise to any reasonable apprehension in
the mind of an accused person that he will not have a fair and impartial enquiry or
trial. In dealing with an application for transfer, the Court has to consider not merely
the question whether there has been any real bias in the mind of the presiding Judge
against the applicant, but also the further question whether incidents may not have
happened which, though they may be susceptible of explanation and may have
happened without there being any real bias in the mind of the Judge, are
nevertheless such as are calculated to create in the mind of the applicant a justifiable
apprehension that he would not have an impartial trial. As observed by Lush J. in
Sergeant versus Dale [(1877) 2 Q.B.D 558] ‘the law has regard, not so much
perhaps to the motives which might be supposed to bias the Judge, as to the
susceptibilities of the litigant parties. One important object, at all events, is to clear
away everything which might engender suspicion and distrust of the tribunal, and so
to promote the feeling of confidence in the administration of justice which is essential
to social order and security.”

*[11. Adjournment on application under section 526.- In an inquiry
under Chapter VIII or any trial, the fact that any party intimates to the court at any
stage that he intends to make an application under this section shall not require the
court to adjourn the case; but the Court shall not pronounce its final judgment or ordr
until the application has been finally disposed of by the High Court and, if the
application is accepted by the High Court, the proceedings taken by the Court
subsequent to the intimation made to it shall, at the option of the accused, be held
afresh. [Section 526(8)]. If a party to an appeal intimates to the Court, before the
argument begins, that he intends to make an application under section 526, the Court
shall, upon such party executing, if so required, a bond without sureties of an amount
not exceeding five hundred rupees; that he will make such application within a
reasonable time to be fixed by the Court, postpone the appeal for such a period as
will afford sufficient time for application to be made and an order to be obtained
thereon. {Section 526(9)].


--- Page 502 ---
230

12. Transfer applications should be supported by affidavits. Notice
to other party. High Court will not entertain applications unless Sessions
Judge has first been moved.—Applications for transfer whether to the District
Magistrate or **[Sessions Judge or] the High Court, should always be supported by
affidavits in support of the grounds of transfer.

13. ***[Omitted].

*[14. Succeeding Court may act on the evidence already recorded.- When a
case is transferred from one Court to another, the provisions of section 350 of the
Code apply, and the succeeding Court may act on the evidence recorded by its
predecessor or it may re-examine the witnesses and recommence the enquiry or
trial.

15. ***[Omitted].


--- Page 503 ---
231
PART B. APPLICATIONS FOR TRANSFER OF CRIMINAL CASES TO FORM
PART OF SEPARATE RECORD.

1. Applications for transfer of criminal cases and the proceedings therein
should form files separate from the record of the main case sought to be transferred
and the records of such transfer applications should be separately consigned to the
Record Room. The original order on the transfer application should be kept on the
record of the transfer proceedings and a copy of this order should be sent to the
Court concerned.

2. Such applications *[shall] be entered in the Register of Applications for
transfer of Criminal Cases (Criminal Register No. XX) and not in the Register of
Miscellaneous Applications.

3. Cases transferred by a Court of its own motion or on administrative
grounds should not be entered in any register and it is unnecessary to keep any
statement of cases so transferred. It is not necessary in such cases to make any
separate record of the transfer proceedings and the original order of transfer, instead
of a copy, may be sent to the Court concerned.


--- Page 504 ---
232
CHAPTER 27
Judicial Lock-ups.

Introductory.—The annexed consolidated and amended rules and
instructions, regulating the management of, and control over, Judicial Lock-ups, are
issued by the High Court, with the concurrence of the Inspector-General of Prisons
and the approval of the Provincial Government, in supersession of previous orders
on the subject.

GENERAL REMARKS.

1. Difference between a Judicial and a Police Lock-up.—The
essential difference between a Judicial and a Police Lock-up is—

(i) that in a Judicial Lock-up no prisoner can be kept without the written
order of a Judicial office to the Jailor or other officer in charge, stating
the offence for which he is detained and whether bail is allowed or not,
nor can a prisoner be removed without such written order;

(ii) that in a Police Lock-up no prisoner can be detained longer than
twenty-four hours, exclusive of the period necessary for jouney from
the place of arrest to the Magistrate’s Court without the special order
of a Magistrate.

2. Persons to be kept in Judicial Lock-up.—Judicial Lock-ups

contain—

(i) persons under-trial before Magistrates, including persons remanded at
the request of the Police as well as persons in cases remanded to
Police;

(ii) persons under trial before the Sessions Judge; and

(iii) in certain districts, prisoners under sentence for short terms who are
detained in Lock-ups for the whole period of their sentence, and
prisoners under sentence for long terms, who are similarly detained
until opportunity offers for their transfer to the nearest jail.

3. When other Lock-ups are to be treated Judicial Lock-ups.—Every

Lock-up which is used for purposes other than that for which the Police


--- Page 505 ---
233

are entitled to use a Lock-up [as explained above in clause (ii) of paragraph 1] must
ipso facto be regarded and treated as Judicial Lock-up. In several districts the
Judicial Lock-up at the headquarters of the District is located in the Jail and is
managed by the Jail authorities. In some districts the Look-ups at headquarters of the
Tahsil are located in the local Police Station, and are used for confining persons in
temporary Police custody as well as those in Magisterial custody. In all such cases
the Lock-up is to be regarded and treated as a Judicial Lock-up. The mere fact that in
several districts no special establishments have been sanctioned for Judicial Lock-up
does not show that no such Lock-ups exist in such districts. The lock-up or one of the
Look-ups at the headquarters of every District and Tehsil must necessarily be a
Judicial Lock-up. District Magistrates are required by the rules [rule XVI, clause (iii) ]
to assign proper places for Judicial Lock-ups and their guards at all Court houses,
and should see that this rule is at once complied with in regard to the Courts at the
headquarters of the District and at each Tahsil.

4. Management of Police Lock-ups and their use as Judicial Lock-
ups.—Purely Police Lock-ups are under the exclusive control of the Police
Department. Police officers are strictly responsible for any infringement of the law in
regard to them, and the magistrate is bound, of his own motion, to take cognizance of
such infringement. Where a Police Lock-up comes to be used as a Judicial Lock-up
the District Magistrate immediately becomes responsible for the enforcement therein
of these rules.

5. Certain Lock-ups declared to be Subsidiary Jails.—The Lock-ups at
Multan Sadr. **[...] Kasur, Mianwali, Bhakkar, Rajanpur and Muzaffargarh, were declared to
be Subsidiary Jails by Punjab Government notification No. 484, dated the 21%" December,
1896.

6. Financial control of Inspector-General of Prisons over Judicial Lock-
ups.—The Inspector-General of Prisons has hitherto exercised financial control over all
Judicial Lock ups in regard to such matters as sanctioning expenditure, approving of budget
arrangements and dealing with questions relating to the entertainment of special
establishments and other similar matter. It is not intended to introduce any change in regard
to these matters.

7. Inspection of judicial Lock-ups by Sessions Judge.
Responsibility of District Magistrate for efficient management.—District
Magistrates should see that all Lock-ups within their districts are efficiently


--- Page 506 ---
234
managed; that prisoners confined therein are properly cared for; and that these rules
are duly observed. It should be regarded as an important part of the Sessions
Judge's duty to inspect Judicial Lock-ups on all convenient occasions; and a brief
report of the result of every such inspection should be communicated to the
Inspector-General of Prisons, the Government and the High Court.

8. Prisoners under-trial should not needlessly be taken about from place
to place when a Magistrate goes on tour.

*[9. Quick disposal of the prisoners of the Lock-up.- Courts should
consider the case in which the accused is in custody as urgent and as having the first
claim on their attention.]

10. Interview with prisoners in Lock-ups.—Under-trial prisoners
confined in a Lock-up should not be permitted to converse with people outside; but
provision should be made under the rules to enable them to hold interviews with their
friends and advisors, subject to such limitations as to times and places as may be
proper and convenient.

11. Harassing of prisoners in Lock-up.—Care should be taken that
prisoners are not exposed to any unnecessary inconvenience, suffering or
degradation.

RULES REGULATING THE MANAGEMENT OF, AND
CONTROL OVER, JUDICIAL LOCK-UPS AND
THE TREATMENT OF UNDER-TRIAL PRISONERS.

IL-- Control, management and inspection of Judicial Lock ups in
jail.—(i) Judicial Lock-ups located within or attached to a Jail shall be managed
entirely by the Jail Department, provided that they shall be subject to these rules in
regard to inspection by the Sessions Judge of the Division in which they are situate
and to the submission of the monthly statements and weekly reminders hereinafter
prescribed.

(ii) The Judicial Lock-up at Rajanpur in the Dera Ghazi Khan District, which
are also used as Subsidiary Jails for short-term prisoners, shall be subject to the
orders of the Inspector-General of Prisons so far as may be necessary for the
purpose of dealing with prisoners undergoing sentences of imprisonment therein and
subject to the same proviso as that contained | clause (i) of this rule.


--- Page 507 ---
235

(iii) Subject to the provisions of clauses (i) and (ii) of this rule, every
Judicial Lock-up shall be under the direct control of the Provincial Government to be
exercised through the Commissioner and the District Magistrate. The Sessions
Judge will, however, be responsible for the inspection of all Judicial Lock-ups, subject
to the General control for the High Court.

(iv) For the under-mentioned purposes every Judicial Lock-up shall be
regarded as being subject to the orders of the Inspector-General of Prisons,
namely—

(a) adjustment of budget estimates;
(b) sanction to expenditure;
(c) entertainment of establishments.

For the purposes of this clause the Inspector-General of Prisons will from time
to time issue such instructions as may be necessary direct to District Magistrates.

I. Control over other Lock-ups.—The immediate supervision and
control over every Judicial Lock-up, other than a Lock-up referred to in clause(i) of
rule I, shall vest in the District Magistrate of the District in which it is situated:
provided that, in the case of a Judicial Lock-up situated within a Sub-Division or a
Cantonment, the immediate control shall vest in the Sub-Divisional or Cantonment
Magistrate (as the case may be) subject to the supervision and orders of the District
Magistrate.

1. Officers in charge of Judicial Lock-ups.—Every Judicial Lock-up
situated at the head-quarters of a district, other than a Lock-up referred to in clause
(i) of rule, 1, shall be in the charge of the Sheriff; and every Judicial Lock-up situated
elsewhere shall be in charge of such officer as the District Magistrate may from time
to time appoint in that behalf.

Iv. Responsibility of Police to guard Lock-ups and to conduct
prisoners.—The Police Department will be responsible for the security of every
Judicial Lock-up not located within or attached to a Jail, and will supply the necessary
guards for its protection and for the conduct of prisoners to and from the Courts, both
at the headquarters of Districts and in Sub-Division, Tahsils and Cantonments, in
accordance with the orders of Government and the rules of that Department.


--- Page 508 ---
236

V. Count of prisoners to be taken morning and evening.—Count shall
be taken morning and evening of the prisoners in every Judicial Lock-up not located
within or attached to a Jail. At the evening count the number of prisoners in each
ward of the Lock-up shall be entered in a register to be maintained for the purpose
and the entry initialed as correct by the officer in charge of the Police Guard. At the
morning count, if the number of the prisoners in the Lock-up is found to be correct,
the entry shall be initialed by the officer in charge of the Lock-up.

VI. Officer in charge responsible for discipline and proper dieting of
prisoners.—In the case of Judicial Lock-ups other than those referred to in clause (i)
of rule , the officer in immediate charge shall, subject to the Magisterial supervision
and control specified in rule Il, be responsible for the maintenance of discipline
amongst, and the dieting of, the prisoners confined therein.

VII. Prisoner's tickets.—Every prisoner confined in a Judicial Lock-up
shall be provided with a wooden or cardboard ticket about two inches square, on
which shall be written—his name; the date of his admission; the offence for or
provision of the law under which he is in custody; and the Court in which his case is
pending.

VII. Date of hearing to be entered in the warrant.—The date of hearing
of the case shall be entered in the warrant directing the confinement of a person to a
Judicial Lock-up.

Note1:- The magistrate of district will be responsible for the due observance of

this rule by all Subordinate Magistrates in the District.

Note 2:- The Jailor or Superintendent of Jail in charge of a Judicial Lock-up should
not refuse admittance to a prisoner where the provisions of this rule have not
been observed, but he should draw the immediate attention of the Magistrate
concerned to the defect, and ask for its rectification at once, sending at the
same time a copy of his letter to the Magistrate of the District for his
information.

IX. Weekly reminder of case in which prisoner has been in the

lock-up for more than a month.—(i) The officer in charge of every Judicial
Lock-up shall submit to the Magistrate, to whom he is subordinate (i.e.,


--- Page 509 ---
237
District Magistrate, Sub-Divisional Magistrate or Cantonment Magistrate, as the case
may be), a weekly reminder, in the form prescribed, showing every case in which a
prisoner has been in confinement for more than a month since the date of his first
admission to the Lock-up, except case in which the prisoner is awaiting trial by the
Sessions Judge under a warrant of committal to the Sessions.

(ii) In the case of Lock-ups situated within Sub-Divisions and Cantonments,
the Sub-Divisional Magistrate or Cantonment Magistrate (as the case may be),
receiving a reminder under the preceding clause of this rule, will initial and date it,
and forthwith submit it, with any remarks which he may deem necessary, to the
District Magistrate for information and orders.

(iii) In every case in which a prisoner has been detained for a longer period
than one month, the reminder shall be forthwith submitted by the District Magistrate
to the Sessions Judge with an explanation of the cause of the delay.

X. Monthly return.—(i) A Judicial Lock-up return, in the form prescribed,
shall be submitted monthly be the District Magistrate, in regard to every Judicial
Lock-up in his district, whether located within or attached to a Jail or not, to the
Sessions Judge. The Sessions Judge will make such remarks and pass such orders
thereupon as he may deem fit, and shall then forward the return to the Inspector-
General of Prisons for information.

(ii) For the purposes of this rule every officer in charge of a Lock-up located
within or attached to a Jail or of a Lock-up mentioned in clause (ii) of rule I, shall
forward a copy of the monthly return to the district Magistrate, the original being
submitted to the Inspector-General of Prisons.

(iii) The monthly return for the district shall be submitted by the District
Magistrate to the Sessions Judge on or before the tenth of every month. A copy of
the monthly return shall also be submitted by the District Magistrate to the
Commissioner of the Division at the same time.

Xl. Scale of diet.—(i) Under-trial prisoners confined in Judicial Lock-ups
shall be dieted according to the following scale:-


--- Page 510 ---
¥ z Fo
P 3 ER
5
g 7)
an E Frat
pi EF) g 5 i
z = 8
=3 E 3
2 g
k i gE
2 ERR 8
$ 5 se &
& £ ? 3
w= 1 Erp——. 2 go
= 3 5 = = = gig
£ $ 3 2 5
g £ x
g - @ T =
HS 5 ¢ = = 5 Fg BE
3 3 (£8 = g BEE
2 | BoE
Te = 4 w mas
1 < H E 22
££ i i: £ af
KE z : 2% 3 gE 3%
2 = © % 2 2
= = N = 8g = Ba
= E RE Bei EE
= ol rt) = sw 2 FE
EN = . 5 9 § £ FE
SE [e294  : we SS 30 58
af (Bzg] 2 £ = 88 gees BES
io 3 2 19, mas Fe 2 aE
ER fof gE
E 7 8 5 5 23
= he = 2 gE 5s
Oi laf) x v © I c £3
Za x22 2 c MM. I H 2 tg
SL |=FE= 2 4 = % E - E&
23 z go: 7 a8
= 7 E iE = 5 2%
£3 = a 8 S z28
E20 3 9 2 = Eg
TZ eid FO. g 3 Eis
E [Ezz] * 2 noz g & 38
= qRae UE | 8 8 3 BF
§ 5 5 i 2 58
¢ : 2 3 BZ:
£ 5 2 g 5¢
gle alo cg Rt
Ea ee [ek PRI 2 = 8 £7
yg |S: IO 8" = § 3 ® 22
£ gg E sz
2 3 : E a £%
= ~ £2 3 g Bg
ER 2 g g
= Ld 3 wr = 2 s £3
pala | Ds ae I § is
$ or gif
3 5 2g i, 2 : £5
oh a £3 Ey £ £ 53
= zz ie £3 Br Fea bua 8
= £2 EE &8 N eg 2 Ey = |!
i EZ Ex a re
- BS 25 224 [<] {i 2
7 £2 32 i3k| Z 8 8382 f 3
aE B= 533% 0 & ©
££ f%3
Zu 7


--- Page 511 ---
239

Provided that if an under-trial prisoner belongs to such a class of life that the
ordinary Jail diet is reasonably distasteful to him, or, in any case, if the Medical
Officer considers it necessary, arrangements shall be made for the supply to hi, in
the former case at his own expense and in the latte at the public cost, of articles of
extra diet.

When articles of diet are supplied at the expense of the prisoner, they shall be
supplied to him through the officer in charge of the lock-up.

(ii) Opium, tobacco, liquors, etc.—No tobacco, alcoholic liquors or
intoxicating drugs shall be supplied to under-trial prisoners except on the order of the
Medical Officer, who should give a written order specifying the daily quantity to be
allowed in each case.

In the case of an under-trial prisoner addicted to the use of opium, who
cannot be conveniently taken before the Medical Officer at once, a proper quantity of
opium may be given daily by the officer-in-charge of the lock-up until the Medical
officer has seen the prisoner; provided that the prisoner or his friends supply the
opium, and that the quantity given shall be limited to what is actually necessary to
maintain the health of the prisoner.

Xll. Inspection by Inspector-General of Prisons.—(i) The Inspector-
General of Prisons, in his annual tours, will inspect all Judicial Lock ups in order to
see that the sanitary arrangements are satisfactory and that the financial
management is efficient. He will bring to the notice of the Sessions Judge, the District
Magistrate and the Commissioner of the Division any defects which he may observe,
submit a brief report of the result of every such inspection to Government, and will
review the general management of Judicial Lock ups in his annual Jail Report.

(ii) The Inspector-General of prisons may at any time bring to the notice of the
Government any matter connected with the management of any Judicial lock-up
which he considers to be unsatisfactory or to need attention.

XII. Inspection by Sessions Judges.—The Sessions Judge should, as
often as may be possible, inspect every Judicial Lock-up in his Division, and
should bring to the notice of the District Magistrate any defects in the management
which he may observe, and pass such orders as he may consider


--- Page 512 ---
240
necessary. A brief report of every such inspection should be submitted to the High
Court; a copy thereof being sent to the Inspector-General of Prisons and another
copy to Government.

XIV. Sub-Divisional Cantonment Magistrate to see to the sanitation,

discipline, etc., of Lock-ups under their control.—(i) The District, Sub-Divisional
or Cantonment Magistrate, having a Judicial Lock-up under his control, is at all time
responsible that, though the strict rules as to sanitation and discipline observed in
regular Jails are not in force in Judicial Lock-ups, the point are duly attended to. As to
sanitation, the Magistrate should see that sanitary precautions similar to those
observed in Jails are taken; that the buildings are not crowded or badly ventilated;
and that the food is of proper quality and according to the prescribed scale of diet.
In regard to discipline, the Magistrate should take measures to ensure proper
behaviour amongst the prisoners. He should see that prisoners are not permitted to
be noisy or turbulent, or to quarrel or fight with one another, and that they behave in
a quiet and orderly manner, and are respectful and obedient to the officer in charge
of the lock-up. Prisoners confined in a lock-up should not be permitted to
Communicate with persons outside; nor should they be permitted to procure or to
endeavour to procure any article from outside except on the written order of the
Magistrate in charge of the lock-up.

(ii) Separate accommodation for female and juvenile prisoners.—
Separate accommodation should be provided for female prisoners, who should be
allowed sufficient privacy. Juveniles should not be placed in the same ward with
adults.

XV. Receipts for prisoners taken out. Police to conduct prisoners.-
The officer in charge should invariably give a receipt to the Jailor, turnkey or other
officer, as the case may be, for the body of every prisoner taken charge of by him,
and should invariably use the agency of the Police to conduct prisoners to and from
Court or any other place to which they may be sent under proper authority.

XVI. Prisoners not to be kept in Police Lock-up without orders of
Magistrate.—(i) No prisoner under-trial should be permitted to remain in a Police
Lock-up except under the orders of a Magistrate or when in transit. A


--- Page 513 ---
241
prisoner in a case remanded to the Police should not be sent to the Police Lock-up
without the written order of the Magistrate, even though his case may be the Police.

(ii) Prisoners accompanying Magistrate on tour should be taken to
be in Judicial Lock-up.—If a Magistrate proceeds on tour and prisoners under trial
accompany him, they are still to be considered as being constructively in the Judicial
Lock-up of such Magistrate's station for the purposes of these rules.

(iii) Provision of a lock-up in each Court-house.—In each Court-house
or in the buildings attached to it, a proper place shall be provided for prisoners under
trial and their guard.

Note:- The amount of space which should be available in a Judicial Lock-up should

ordinarily be not less than 648 cubic feet of air space and 36 feet of floor area per

prisoner. Lateral ventilation exclusive of iron bars and door jams should not be less
than ten square feet. Separate accommodation should be provided for females and
juveniles.

XVII. Prisoners received or taken out under orders of magistrates.—(i)
Under-trial prisoners shall not be received into or removed form a Judicial Lock-up
except on the written order of a Magistrate.

The order should be made on the prescribed form of warrant. Whenever p
prisoner is sent out of the Lock-up, the officer in charge should, after making the
necessary endorsement, send the warrant with him to the Magistrate for the purpose
of having the return endorsement made thereon by the Magistrate, as noted on the
form.

(ii) Expenses of transfer of prisoner.—When a prisoner under-trial is
transferred from one place to another under the orders of a Magistrate, the
Magistrate under whose order the prisoner is transferred shall pay, in advance, the
traveling expenses for the whole journey, and not merely to the headquarters of the
nearest district en route.

(iii) Sick Prisoners to be kept in jail hospitals. Transfer of sick
prisoners.—Under-trial prisoners shall not be transferred while suffering form
serious illness; and if there is a dispensary at the place where a lock-up is


--- Page 514 ---
242

situated, no prisoner who is ill shall be transferred until previous medical examination

has shown him to be in a fit state of health to undergo the journey. Sick or wounded

prisoners under trial at the head-quarters of district shall be confined in Jail hospitals
whenever medical advice or treatment may be necessary.

XVIIL- Clothing.—Prisoners under trial shall be allowed to wear their own
clothing; but in order to provide for persons who are insufficiently clad a supply of
blankets hall be kept in stock at each Judicial Lock-up. The blankets shall be
obtained from the Jail of the district or from a neighboring Jail on indent prepared by
the District Magistrate and passed by the Inspector-General of Prisons.

XIX. Handcuffs, fetters and other restraints.—Under-trial prisoners are
to be subjected to no further restraint than is necessary for their safe custody, and
shall not ordinarily be confined in fetters or placed under mechanical bodily restraint:
Provide that the officer in charge may, with the permission in writing of the Magistrate
having control over the Lock-up, have recourse to fetters or other necessary
mechanical bodily restraint in the case of any under-trial prisoner who is violent or
turbulent, or who is considered to be otherwise dangerous.

Under-trial prisoners while being escorted to and from Court by the Police
should not be handcuffed, unless there is a reasonable expectation that such
prisoner will use violence, or that an attempt will be made to rescue them.

XX. Habitual offenders and previous convicts to be reported.—
Whenever it shall come to the knowledge of the officer-in-charge of a Lock-up that a
prisoner confined therein is an habitual offender or has been previously convicted of
any offence, he shall forthwith report the fact to the Magistrate.

Note:- Restrictions regarding under-trail prisoners.—Under-trial prisoners should not be
permitted to crop their hair or to alter their personal appearance in any way so as to
make it difficult to recognize them.

XXI. Information to be sent to Officer in charge when a prisoner is
discharged or released on bail.—When an under-trail prisoner is discharged in
open Court or released on bail while attending the Court, the presiding


--- Page 515 ---
243
officer of the Court shall intimate the fact in writing, under his signature, the same
day, to the officer in charge of the Judicial Lock-up from which the prisoner was sent
to such Court.

XXII. Interviews and correspondence.—Prisoners under-trial shall be
given all reasonable facilities for communicating, either personally or by letter, with
their friends, or legal advisers. Interviews may be allowed and letters forwarded
under the authority of the Magistrate having control over the Lock-up.

XXIII. Disposal of money or other property found on the person of the
prisoner.—Money or other property found on the persons of under-trial prisoners,
other than necessary wearing apparel, shall be taken charge of by the Court
Inspector. A lit of such articles shall be recorded on the back of the prisoner's
warrant, and the Court Inspector shall be held responsible for seeing that they are
made over to the prisoner, or duly forwarded to him, if he is discharged or acquitted
or punished otherwise than with imprisonment, or that they are forwarded to the
officer in charge of the Jail in which he is, or is to be confined if he is sentenced to
imprisonment.

XXIV. Punishment for breach of discipline.—(i) The punishments
awardable for breaches of rules shall be as follows:-

(a) Isolation in a cell or separate ward for a period not exceeding seven days.

(b) Penal diet consisting of bread and water for a period not exceeding three
days; the quantity of bread to be 8 chittacks of wheaten flour made into
chapatis.

(c) In the case of turbulent or dangerous prisoners, confinement in fetters.

(ii) Punishment may be inflicted under the written order of the Magistrate
having control over the Lock-up.

XXV. Prisoners under sentence temporarily confined in Lock-up.—
Prisoners under sentence who may be temporarily confined in a Lock-up or who may
be required to undergo their sentence in a Lock-up which is a Subsidiary


--- Page 516 ---
244
Jail, shall, as far as may be, be subject to the same rules with regard to labour and
discipline as are in force in regular jails.
XXVL.- Register of under-trial prisoners.—A register, in the form
prescribed, showing every admission to an removal from a Judicial Lock-up shall be
maintained by the officer in charge.


--- Page 517 ---
245
CHAPTER 28
JURORS AND ASSESSORS................ [Omitted].


--- Page 518 ---
246
CHAPTER 29
PUBLIC PROSECUTORS.
PART A. — APPOINTMENTS OF PUBLIC PROSECUTORS.

1. Appointment, transfer, etc.—All matters relating to the appointment,
remuneration, transfer or removal of Public Prosecutors ret with the Executive and
not with the Judicial Department. Commissioners and Deputy Commissioners will
consult the Sessions Judge as to matters on which they desire to obtain the opinion
of that officer. References relating to Public Prosecutors (other than proceedings as
regards professional misconduct falling under the rules relating to Legal
Practitioners) should not be submitted to or through the High Court, it being left to the
Government to consult the judges when thought desirable.

2 ***[Omitted].

3. ***[Omitted].

4. ***[Omitted].

5. ***[Omitted].

6. ***[Omitted].

7. ***[Omitted].

8. ***[Omitted].

9. Diary.—A brief diary should be maintained by all Public Prosecutors.

10.  ***[Omitted].

SCHEDULE SHOWING THE SCALE OF PAY FIXED FOR PUBLIC
PROSECUTORS IN THE VARIOUS DISTRICTS OF THE PUNJAB.
***[Omitted]

11. ***[Omitted].


--- Page 519 ---
247
PART B. — THE SUPPLY OF COPIES TO THE
ADVOCATE GENERAL AND PUBLIC PROSECUTORS.

1. Records and copies to be supplied in cases before Sub-ordinate
Courts.—When the Advocate-General as Public Prosecutor, has been ordered to
undertake a case, he shall, if his appearance is required in any Court other than the
High Court, be supplied as soon as practicable, with the following papers, according
to the stage which the proceedings may have reached:-

(a) In original trials and inquiries before a Magistrate **[or a Court of Session]
(1) a list of the witnesses for the prosecution, with a note of the evidence
each is expected to give; (2) copies of any documents material to the
case which are available.

(b) In appeals before a Court of Session, a complete copy of the record of the
lower Court, except formal papers not affecting the merits of the case.

(c) Copies of the Police papers whenever, in the opinion of the officer
applying for the services of the Advocate-General, they are likely to help
materially to a proper understanding of the case.]

(d) ***[Omitted].

2. Records and copies to be supplied in cases before Subordinate
Courts.—In addition to the above, any papers and records, including copies of
depositions of witnesses recorded by the trying Courts, which may be required by the
Law Officer, shall be supplied as soon as possible after receipt of his requisition.

Note:- The Public Prosecutors should, however use more discrimination in their

requests for full copies of evidence and should, as far as possible, obtain the
material required by them from inspection of judicial records; copies should
not be obtained by them except in complicated cases, when inspection will
not serve the purpose. (Punjab Government Letter No. 12012-Judl., dated
the 15 April, 1926, and Legal Remembrancer’s letter No. 1829, dated the 7h
May 1926.)

3. Copies in cases before High Court.— In cases in which the
Advocate-General is ordered to appear in an appeal or revision case before the


--- Page 520 ---
248
High Court, it will ordinarily be for him to obtain copies of such parts of the record as
he requires; but if in any case copies can be more conveniently obtained by the
officer who has applied for his services, such officer may be required to obtain and
transmit the necessary copies. In any case, the cost of obtaining copies shall be
defrayed by the officer who has applied for the Advocate-General's services.


--- Page 521 ---
249
JUDICIAL POWERS—CRIMINAL.
PART A. — POWERS OF CRIMINAL COURTS.

1. Powers defined in the Criminal Procedure Code and other Acts.—
The constitution and powers of the Criminal Court are regulated by Chapter Il and III,
and schedules Ill and 1V, of the Code of Criminal Procedure. Column 8 of Schedule II
of the Code indicates the class of Court competent to try each offence falling under
the Pakistan Penal Code. In regard to offences falling under Local and Special Laws,
the classes of Courts by which such offences are triable are usually specified in the
Act creating the offences. Where, in any such Act, the term “Magistrate” is used
without qualification, it includes all persons exercising all or any of the powers of a
Magistrate under the Code [General Clauses Act, Section 2 Clause (13)].

2. Special powers.--- The general powers which Magistrates are entitled
to exercise in addition to those conferred upon them by sections 32 and 33 of the
Code will be found in the third and fourth Schedules of the Code. Besides their
ordinary powers detailed in the third Schedule, Magistrates of the first class may (1)
require security for good behaviour under section 110, and (2) issue process for a
person who within local jurisdiction has committed an offence outside such local
jurisdiction. **[(See section 186 Cr.P.C.)] (Punjab Government Notification No. 507,
dated 5" April 1904). The same notification empowers all Magistrates of the first and
second classes (1) to make orders prohibiting repetitions of nuisances, under section
143; (2) to make orders under section 144 as regards nuisance; and (3) to take
cognizance of offences upon information, under section 190. All Magistrates are
empowered to take cognizance of offences upon (1) Complaint or (2) Police report. -
**[(See section 190 Cr.P.C.)].

3. Powers conferred by Government.—For powers conferred by the
Provincial Government upon certain classes of officers, either under the Code of
Criminal Procedure or any other Act, see Schedule A and B attached to this Order.


--- Page 522 ---
250
— EE —
z
ny §a
Pes) Sig:
Ed = ze == =
228 85% EZ £2% 337; §¢ 7
=] g8F ¢ Liv ET3f FE ©
Rar SF 2 2 Sod ¢3.g SE £
fel tR5  F gSf TZps EE 8
SEv FE a B 2.2 22 2a
C= 3 = g gg 880 Z
gz3 2 H Fa 428 5 £
Lt] ¥= or =] 2nE & o
Coa £8 7 gs. E92 g 5
28 EH BE gi g
£22 g £2 288 oR
i gz EB Fe 553 g
BZ 8G = = EE] ze 8 =
SEB EXE 8 & 83 £005
Ec Bisa R £8, 5
ax 7 Ey T = TZe i Z|
oT 23 &.8 S3& °
26 -
232 Rr a x Treg
ioe Tet J e £ =
F22 2 2 23 a @ a
g 5 3 = £ $23 £
gg 8.3 5 3 Eons
ans 2 H 3 a z El »
gRE p \ ; : 2 3 | Ee
EA Ey a: 4 o 1 z| 3 -
2 a 2 Fy z of z =
2g5 n [o} { a [=] IS m
FEE 5 s {2} Q co sl © [=]
£=9 #iy z Bg = 8 3| 2
£=9 7 2 5 z g Big
OO =uw 5
258 I 5
CE a »
<5 Zz a
$82 2
A Ee — £
$2 |FPEE828zE = S52 T= 5
32 12888353822 EERE Z
82x [582838 eZ 2.5 ES 2
56% ex ZEZ35 ZF RZE B= 3
228 |agpiEgigsE gs EE 2
<op |[ag222¥8Bsaz Sz Ss Fy
R382 RE2F E
380 E33 L251 5S BF 3
828 Z28s%8588 oo gi TH pd £
2h de a Hi = H I
Sfalia fe RED UE, 8 5 37 4% z
ens | ze-%g8s%2 is Bo
age EEE ied 28 Rel
BE NnogE Tila 27 3)
22 Pee gige EP
“aR | 528 CR 83 £8 5
2G: §88cecgls £ g
oe Se l5858s50 ga £
of — — it
cE g% 3% zz ZF SF Fo
3 £ i = pH =) =)
2% = = En HA Ch —|g
<3 ] it = Ele
g5 Bogs TOR g g £3 =
8.0 ps - 5 z ra PER
= gE gg 84 g g(3
5 gg wo ~ = EEs
29 & z g 5 & g(2 5
= i = a = 8
f= for p- a ~
ES gia = BES
gE 5 FE g H v BEE
iy ££ g 5 » EEE
BS 4 rd a E 3 = ER
25 & 3 = 15
= = 2 = 2 5 <3 g
“ ER Bal gE zr ZB
§irE 8 g EEF
g g z g 11


--- Page 523 ---
251
=
212 1
EE FH
Bs 2|z =
2 E[3 E
= O|= i
2 E
23s
= EIB 2
Z §|2 3
5 Ef Z
Zz Eg 2
e182 =
= 5
3ls p
3 s
=
=
E
S
24
254
8578 :
z =9 2
2 2 &
= Er
is BC
g £3
Z 53
=
& gg RE
=) £ “1 I :
213 ge Bf i BEE
a 5s é 2 ,3=2282 £8
A ET “ih
[= = |58E 250 28 2° 8 Z
= 0% £3 b- 4 3 : :
: AH £8 i) 8Ez g 2247
3 |g |[E=; gr gd fifexy 27
z  lgi2 i. £2 &z = rhe
£ [Ezg EEA TREY
$2 |EEE S22 gg ¢ iz. ¢ ot
E|ige gi: if THOR
nS 0 SECC gd 858223 34
Fash es L 25835 E+
gaxd = B a
= gs E§ :
y = = 2
: a
F -
3
i 2
5 |B :
5 2
£ |S -
Qe g
E 2
[es s
f Hl
g a
£ E,
z 3
E £
Bo.
pe


--- Page 524 ---
252
EEN
= z gz
0 FR gz
g & 25
= a : 2
5 4 z
z 2 2 o
8 2 i 3
B 2 z
/ #3
: E
& :
H 4
2 a
5 Ey
Z
= = = E28 =
5 ES T E 8 f3°
g 5 £g
= F bd & 5 88 fo]
® 232° srxezozo® © o 84 ¢&
S B§fg EIEETIE. 3; i° 239%
3 S888 88E8:8sd: Ig 53 8 a A
8 33°;€ Fz"2°38% & 52 §& 5 2]
gomgldp SR CwBge © Dk og al =
a 832 g% _3325 ER Szz| 8 o
= 2338 = z£ "2 38 =] es EZ §
8 gz SRR |<] & 8 525 =
= 28 "S44 £ [4 & == 3
5 la SR £ g | 3 g
3 &8¢ ZF R35 3 ae 8 g
= 2 —8 5.8 8 A = o =
~PE 2.808% | < g 7
Goa Lah 2iy 2 a x
BE 2832888 ¢ g 3 53 2
2
g
p=
g
:
El &
EX
z
HR)
S
: 2
ER
gla B
2 e a2 2
5 5 Ize
7 2 Zo ®
i Bl &
2= 2
=| =
2|2
£|3"
=


--- Page 525 ---
55 £ £
== = £
« §|3 = 8
og G fd
2 Zz = z 2
= 3|F 2 ~ =
foi =. ‘a g
237 3 & E
EEE = = g
g gs 3 3 £
s =|. = =] g
2 Ele = 8
3 Fd =
4 ie = = BE
Fo po z
Ss a oo o'% 2
re) = Zz 5
7 Zn = 2] o
2 LZ = Ed
H 2
2 5G
z 5
+ |Z =
¢ [E|5 3
< = |Z El
z TE Z
£ =2 . 2
= EE] 3
- — $1] brd
z =
Zz =X z i
7s Ra re Big = ‘= =
2 2 EgtE sims :
2 z EERE 220 a
bo = |E2 SZ:% 275% c 2
= T [23 238% ZZ35E <<
- £152 Ses = F¥gY Sz
=) £125 5 = 2 S55 2
= | E1353 g3d< TE 8 g
FRR Ce Oe 5
= aay Z,:2° >. 3
Z |g lz8 zzgy Sz: Zs
< « |52 sg=8. Z27=gy =
B Z 22 = = ~ = £
kd S |Z: Ta3 $:22 32 i
ER] E52, ZETO Z2=
z [23 T3522, 8% 3 =
on sz&T2 253,82 ER
is 2.53 523 Ss
S20 58233 3433 Bil
EC2 ESE 223. 32 EE
oF Peas S28. 2 sc £
222s S537 EZ =
EE EZ
4 D3,
4 ER
2 'Z £2
4 FS 5 23
s [2 3 g gz
EE Z £7
£ [4 of : 2%
H 5 i -
g |Z H & ZZ
g 2 3 we
ES 47) Z =n)
= FE Z ER Pa
z 3 2 2 |
z ZZ = HEE
: 2 = gS g=
= Rr ia Te Ey bur Zw
E gl. =
Pde r 7
£ » 2 Z
5
sme nish 7


--- Page 526 ---
254
PART B. — CONFERMENT OF CRIMINAL
MAGISTERIAL POWERS.

Instructions in re recommendations for conferment of criminal
magisterial power.- The Hon'ble Judges have been pleased to issue the following
instructions, which have been approved by the Provincial Government, in regard to
recommendations for the conferment of criminal magisterial powers:-

*[1. For Federal and provincial Civil Servants.- Recommendations for
the conferment of Criminal Magisterial powers upon Officers of the Federal and
Provincial services should ordinarily originate as the circumstances of each case may
require, with the District Magistrate through Commissioner, in the case of Executive
Magistrate and with the Sessions Judge, through the High Court in the case of
Judicial Magistrates.

2. Channel of recommendation.- When it is desired to confer enhanced
powers e.g. the powers under section 260 of the Code upon an Executive or Judicial
Magistrate, the District Magistrate or the Sessions Judge as the case may be, shall
address their proposal for the conferment of such powers to the High Court, provided
that the proposal for the conferment of powers on the Executive Magistrate shall be
forwarded to the High Court through the Sessions Judge.]

3. When Commissioner shall consult Sessions Judge.—In other
cases, the Commissioner, before forwarding the proposal to the High Court, may
consult the District and Sessions Judge if he thinks it necessary to do so; but he shall
do so whenever it is proposed to confer on any person the enhanced powers
mentioned in paragraph 2 and.-

(a) First class magisterial powers;
(b) ***[Omitted]

4. Statement of previous exercise of powers to be sent alongwith
recommendation.—When recommendation for the investiture of Extra
Assistant Commissioner and Tahsildars with criminal powers are submitted to the
High Court, it should invariably be specified whether the officer recommended
has exercised powers before of the same or of a lower class, and for what periods,
the Government notification conferring such powers should be


--- Page 527 ---
255
quoted in each case. If officer has never exercised criminal powers before, the fact
should be stated.

5. Necessary qualifications for exercise of special powers.—Special
care should be taken when recommending the investiture of officers with the
important powers of a section 30 or 260 Magistrate, with criminal appellate powers or
with the powers of an Additional District Magistrate. Ordinarily the qualifications
necessary for the conferment of powers under section 260 of the Code of Criminal
Procedure are-

(a) The exercise of first class of first class magisterial powers for at least
three years;
(b) the officer recommended must be reported to be a capable and reliable
Magistrate;
(c) he should keep his records and write his judgments in English;
(d) his English should be intelligent and his handwriting legible; and
(e) he should have served for at least *[five] years. Service rendered in an
honorary capacity may be taken into consideration.
Note: These conditions are not applicable to officers of *[a Federal Service] who are
governed by the orders regulating the training of Assistant Commissioners.

6. Recommendations should ordinarily be made at the time of
revision of annual confidential powers lists.--- Government maintains confidential
lists of officers of *[Federal and Provincial Services] who are considered qualified to
exercise or to be tried with certain enhanced civil and criminal powers. These lists
are revises annually under instructions which are issued separately b the High Court.
The channel prescribed in paragraphs 2 and 3 for the transmission of proposals
applies only to the case of individual recommendations made from time to time
during the year and not to the procedure for the revision of the annual confidential
powers lists.

Normally, recommendations for the investiture of officers with enhanced
powers should be confined to the time of the annual revision of lists, save when
enhancement of powers is essential in the interests of work. The records of all
officers recommended at the time of such revision are very carefully examined


--- Page 528 ---
256
and it means extra work and less accurate results if individual cases are taken up at
other times.

7. Conferment of higher powers in emergency does not qualify
permanently. It sometimes happens that higher powers are conferred in an
emergency upon officers not in every way competent to exercise them permanently:
this, however confers no claim to be given such powers permanently at the next
revision of lists. Some officers are apt to consider that because they do not get higher
powers, or their names do not appear on the confidential lists of officers qualified to
exercise or to be tried with higher powers, as soon as they expect to, there are some
undisclosed complaints against them, when the real reason may merely be that the
High Court does not consider that they are quite ready to exercise them.

CHAPTER 31
[SESSIONS DIVISIONS........OMITTED]


--- Page 529 ---
EER
IAP
RULES AND ORDERS
OF THE
LAHORE HIGH COURT, LAHORE
VOLUME - IV


--- Page 530 ---
HIGH COURT RULES AND ORDERS — VOLUME IV
CHAPTER 1
SUPERINTENDENCE AND CONTROL
PART I — GENERAL
PART-A: SUPERVISION AND CONTROL

1. Preamble.—In subsequent chapters instructions are given on various matters connected
with the supervision and control to be exercised by Judicial officers generally over the ministerial
establishments attached to their Courts, and by controlling officers over subordinate Judicial
officers. A few general directions on the subject are here given for observance.

2. Supervision by Controlling Courts in executive matters.—Controlling Courts are
required to exercise an active and continuous supervision over subordinate Courts in regard to all
matters affecting the judicial administration and are not relieved of responsibility in regard to
anything which may be found to be in an unsatisfactory state, unless they can show that they have
done all that may reasonably be expected of them to have the directions of the High Court
enforced and to prevent the occurrence of irregularities.

3. Supervision by Controlling Courts in judicial work.—In regard to judicial business
District Magistrates and District Judges are not responsible merely for a proper distribution of
work amongst the Courts, and for the disposal of appeals, but are required to see that subordinate
Courts follow the prescribed procedure in all their proceedings and are not left without guidance in
matters in which they may be found to be at fault or to be in want of instruction. The supervision
to be exercised over inexperienced officers and officers in training should be specially vigilant and
thorough, and their work should be watched with kindly interest, guidance being afforded them on
all proper occasions.

4. Appellate Courts should point out to lower Courts errors and irregularities.—It is
very desirable that Appellate Courts should apart from disposing of appeals judicially, bring to the
notice of subordinate Courts errors or irregularities in procedure which may be observed in the
course of hearing appeals. Unnecessary adjournments; undue delay in disposing of cases; omission
to hear cases on the days fixed; too harsh a use of the summary procedure allowed by law in cases
in which defaults in attendance, or in producing evidence or the like, occur; failure to examine
thoroughly the parties and to arrive at an intelligent appreciation of the points in dispute, and
similar matters should always be brought to the notice of officers concerned in a note or
‘memorandum separate from the judgment.

5. Presiding Officer to acquaint himself with the Rules and Orders of High Court
and to exercise supervision over the staff.—Every Judicial officer is required to make himself
acquainted with the law which he has to administer, and with the Rules and Orders of the High
Court, and also to supervise the work of the ministerial officers attached to his Court.

6. Presiding Officers of Courts should observe regular Court hours; serious notice will be
taken of habitual unpunctuality. The attention of District and Sessions Judges and District
Magistrates is drawn to the necessity of seeing that the officers subordinate to them are punctual in
attending Courts and to paying surprise visits, where necessary, to satisfy themselves. Periodical
reports will not be made and reference to the High Court will only be required if a report about a
particular officer is necessary.

7. Honorary Subordinate Judges and Magistrates should also observe regular Court hours,
which should be fixed by the District and Sessions Judge and the District Magistrate in each case
after consulting the Honorary Subordinate Judge and Honorary Magistrate concerned. The order
of the District and Sessions Judge and the District Magistrate fixing the Court hours decided upon
should be affixed to the notice board outside the Court house for the information of the public.


--- Page 531 ---
2 High Court Rules and Orders — Vol. IV
————
PART-B: Pecuniary Control

1. Responsibility of presiding officer for proper accounting and application of money
and property received.—The presiding officer of every Court is responsible that the Registers
and Accounts of his Court are regularly and correctly kept, and that money and property passing
through his hands or dealt with under his orders, are duly accounted for and applied. Controlling
officers should be careful to bring home this responsibility to officers serving under them. See also
in this connection paragraph 7 of Volume I, Chapter 12-A.

2. Receipt of money orders during absence presiding officer.—It is the duty of the
presiding officers of Courts to make adequate arrangements for the receipt of money orders during
their absence on casual or vacation leave and they will be held responsible for seeing that money
so received is duly brought to account in the treasury.

3. Prohibition against receipt of cheques from private persons.—Presiding officers are
prohibited from accepting cheques from private persons in lieu of cash as cheques are not legal
tender. The Imperial Bank can accept cheques on clearing banks only for credit of Government
account.

4. Supervision of pecuniary transactions by controlling officers.—Special vigilance is
necessary in supervising the pecuniary transactions of the Courts, and the accounts and registers of
subordinate Courts should be frequently and carefully inspected by controlling officers.

5. Defalcation in accounts or loss of public money should be reported.—(a) Whenever
a defalcation in the accounts of any Court is brought to light or any loss of public money is
discovered, the fact should be forthwith reported and an inquiry instituted. When the matter has
been fully inquired into, a further and complete report should be submitted explaining the nature
and extent of the loss and the prospects which exist of effecting a recovery of the amount, whether
in part or in whole. The report should further state and the nature of the error or neglect of rules by
which such defalcation was rendered possible and the names of the officers directly or indirectly
responsible.

(b) Reports will be submitted by the Senior Sub-Judge, or Judge, Small Cause Court (as the
case may be), through the District and Sessions Judge, and by the letter (in regard to their own
Courts direct) to the High Court. Copies of such reports will also be forwarded to the Accountant-
General, Punjab, when the loss involved exceeds Rs. 200 or presents important features which
merit detailed investigation and consideration, as required by rule 2.34 of the Punjab Financial
Rules, Volume I.

6. Directions as to receipt of money and property. Security to be taken from
officials.—It should be remembered that the Government is responsible to the public for the
proper application and disposal of all money and property received by public officers in the
discharge of their duties as such. It is therefore desirable that money and property should in every
case be received by or in the presence of a Judicial officer competent to deal with it, and that the
person who delivers such money or property to the Court, or from whom it is taken in due course
of law, should be granted a proper acknowledgement, on the prescribed form, signed by such
Judicial officer or by a responsible officer authorized by Government in that behalf. The
Government cannot hold itself liable for claims based on receipts on manuscript forms granted by
unauthorized or irresponsible subordinate officials. Clerks of District Courts, Registrars of Small
Causes Courts and Civil Nazir are authorized to conduct certain pecuniary transactions, under the
supervision and on the responsibility of the Judicial Officer under whom they serve, but their
action should be closely watched. The orders in regard to the security to be taken from all
ministerial officers of the Judicial Department entrusted with duties of a pecuniary nature should
be rigidly enforced. The payment of security by such ministerial officers in instalments is
prohibited.

71. Cancellation of stamps. Detection of fraud to be reported to High Court.—It is the
duty of the presiding officer of every Court to supervise the cancellation, according to law, of
Court-fee stamps and labels attached to plaints, appeals, complaints, petitions and applications


--- Page 532 ---
3 High Court Rules and Orders — Vol. IV
————
filed in his Court or received on account of process-fees. Section 30 of the Court-Fees Act
provides that no document requiring a stamp shall be filed or acted upon in any proceedings in any
Court or office until the stamp has been cancelled. Cancellation is to be effected by punching out
the figure head, so as to leave the amount designed on the stamp untouched, and the part removed
by punching must be burnt or otherwise destroyed. The rules on the subject made by the High
Court will be found in Chapter 4 of this volume. These rules must be strictly observed in order to
prevent fraud. Unless labels are properly cancelled, they may be removed from the documents to
which they are attached and used again. Several instances have come to light in which Court-fee
labels have been removed from records, or otherwise tampered with, and controlling officers
should exercise vigilant supervision in the matter. Where any frauds come to light, they should be
forthwith brought to the notice of the High Court.

8. Instructions regarding deposit of moneys received by a Government servant.—
Attention is drawn to Article I, Civil Account Code, Volume I, as amended by correction slip No.
8, dated the 1st April, 1935, read with Treasury Order 7, reproduced in Appendix 8-C, ibid, under
which all moneys received by a Government servant in his official capacity as dues of
Government, or for deposit in the custody of Government, must without undue delay be paid in to
the Treasury on the same day or on the morning of the next day at the latest as a revenue or Civil
Court deposit according to rules applicable to such deposits.

9. Responsibility for loss on account of overpayment of pay, etc.—Attention is drawn
to the orders contained in Article 17 of the Civil Account Code, Volume I, under which drawers of
bills and controlling officers can be called upon to make good the losses incurred by Government
on account of overpayments of pay and allowances caused by lack of supervision.

PART C - INSPECTION OF SUBORDINATE COURTS

1. Monthly Inspection of subordinate Courts by District Judge and District
Magistrate.—A portion of the civil and criminal work of each subordinate District Court should
be regularly examined and criticized each month by the District Judge and District Magistrate,
respectively, and District Magistrates and District Judges should, so far as circumstances permit,
keep themselves acquainted with the working of the Courts subordinate to them, and comment on
any irregularities which may come to their notice. The registers of subordinate Courts should also
be periodically inspected.

2. Duty of Inspection officers to see that unnecessary adjournments are not
granted.—When examining the records of subordinate Courts inspecting officers should
particularly note the number of adjournments granted in any case, and the reasons for them; if it is
found that adjournments are granted unnecessary, the presiding officer of the Court concerned
should at once be warned, and, if the practice continues, a report should be made to the High
Court.

3. Inspection by District Judge and District Magistrate in Districts not visited by
Inspection Judge.—In districts not visited by the Inspecting Judge, the District Judge should
inspect the Courts of Subordinate Judge, and the District Magistrate those of 1st Class Stipendiary
Magistrates.

4. Inspection by District Judge and District Magistrate in districts visited by the
Inspection Judge.—In regard to districts which are visited by the Inspecting Judge, the District
Judge should report on those Subordinate Judges, and the District Magistrate on those Ist Class
Stipendiary Magistrates outside headquarters, who are not inspected by the Inspecting Judge.

5. Forwarding of inspection notes to High Court.—The District Magistrate’s inspection
notes should be forwarded to the District and Sessions Judge who will forward them with his
remarks to the High Court, together with his inspection notes on the Courts of Subordinate Judges.

6. Date and scope of inspection notes.—As the inspection of subordinate Courts usually
takes place in the cold weather, the report should reach the High Court by the 1st May. The
inspection notes, which should be as brief as possible, should be on the lines of the Inspection


--- Page 533 ---
4 High Court Rules and Orders — Vol. IV
————
Judge's notes and should be type-written.

71. High Court shall receive annual report as to work of every judicial officer.—In this
way the High Court will receive annually a report on the work of each Stipendiary Judicial Officer
as inspected by the Inspecting Judge, the District Judge or the District Magistrate.

8. Inspection Reports of Honorary Magistrates and Honorary Sub-Judges.—Under
the existing orders of Government, the Court of every Honorary Magistrate, Bench of Honorary
Magistrates, and Honorary Subordinate Judge should be inspected at least once a year by an
experienced judicial officer, whose report should be submitted by the District and Sessions Judge,
through the High Court, to Government. Such reports should be submitted in duplicate and with
the least possible delay.

Note—In the case of inspections of the Courts of Honorary Magistrates, sitting either
singly or on a Bench, the expression “an experienced judicial officer” means either the District
Magistrate, Additional District Magistrate, Sub-Divisional Magistrate, or Section 30 Magistrate.
Each alternate inspection must, however, be made by the District Magistrate himself. (Punjab
Government letter No. 16180-H. Judl., dated 24th April, 1935).

In addition to these annual inspections of the work of stipendiary and honorary judicial
officers, which must be reported to the High Court, local officers should continue to make regular
inspections of the work of such officers, which need not be reported to the High Court unless on
some matter of importance.

Inspection of Tehsildars’ Courts.—The orders requiring the annual inspection of
Civil Courts do not, however, apply to the civil work of Tehsildars and Naib-Tehsildars who are
ex-officio Subordinate Judges but rarely exercise these powers. It is desirable however (though not
essential), that the work of those Tehsildars who do more than a normal amount of civil work
should be inspected every two years or so, subject to the condition that no extra expenditure is
incurred. In the case of a tehsildar who does a fair amount of civil work and is stationed at a place
which it is impossible to visit without making a special journey, the special sanction of the High
Court must be obtained in advance and will normally be granted, funds permitting, but not more
often than once in two years.

9. Lists of suitable subjects for inquiry will be found in Chapters 2 and 3 relating to the
Superintendence and Control of Civil and Criminal Courts, respectively.

10. Inspection by presiding officer.—The importance of the careful supervision of
registers and pending files by presiding officers can hardly be exaggerated.

On the first working days in the months of February, May, August and November every
District Judge, Judge, Small Cause Court and Subordinate Judge shall carry out regular inspection
of his own Court and shall fix no judicial work for those days.

11. Submission of inspection notes.—He shall inspect in detail the work of the ministerial
staff, and the registers and shall, in particular, look through the oldest files pending and see
whether unnecessary delay has occurred or wrong orders have been passed. He should check all
old registers preserved in his Court, report any losses that have occurred and arrange for the
destruction of all registers liable to be destroyed. He shall then write a brief inspection note on the
lines of an Inspection Judge’s note. This note shall be submitted by the Subordinate Judge to the
District Judges. The District Judge shall submit to the High Court the inspection note of his own
Court. The District Judge need not submit to the High Court the inspection notes of the
Subordinate Judges.

12. Work of predecessor not to be criticised.—The presiding officers shall not criticise
the work done by their predecessors but shall confine their criticism to the period during which
cases were dealt with by them.

13. Inability to inspect on the date fixed.—If an officer is unable to make an inspection of
his own Court on the prescribed date, he shall do so as soon as possible thereafter and, in any case,


--- Page 534 ---
5 High Court Rules and Orders — Vol. IV
———
in the month in which the inspection should have been made.

PART D: REPORTS ON THE WORK OF JUDICIAL OFFICERS

1. Reports on the work of judicial officers.—The orders regarding the maintenance
of character rolls do not apply to judicial officers, on whose work and character a report is
submitted with the annual reports on “Civil and Criminal Justice.”

2. Reporting authorities and period covered by the report.—District Magistrates,
under instructions from the Provincial Government, and District and Sessions Judges are required
to forward a report on the services and character of the work performed by every judicial officer
working under them during the twelve months ending on the 31st of March. It should be noted that
reports are now required for the financial, and not as hitherto, for the calendar year.

3. List of officers about whom and the authority to whom reports are to be
submitted.—Reports on the work of the following officers, which must be submitted in duplicate,
should be forwarded to Government through the Registrar of the High Court:--

(a) On the magisterial work of:--

[6] Officers of the Civil Service of Pakistan;

(ii) Officers of the Punjab Civil Service (Executive Branch);

(iii) Political Probationers of the Government of Pakistan;

(iv) Honorary Magistrates.

(b) On the civil judicial work of:--
[0] Officers of the Civil Service of Pakistan who worked as Subordinate Judges;
(ii) Political Probationers of Government of Pakistan who worked as Subordinate
Judges.

(iii) Honorary Subordinate Judges.

Reports on the civil judicial work of officers of the Punjab Civil Service (Judicial
Branch) should similarly be submitted to the Registrar, High Court, for the twelve months ending
on the 31st of March, and not for the calendar year. They are not required in duplicate since they
are retained by the Registrar.

Reports on the magisterial work of Assistant Commissioners and Extra Assistant
Commissioners originate with the District Magistrate and should be forwarded through the District
and Sessions Judge, who will add his remarks on the work of the District Magistrate; those on
civil judicial work with the District and Sessions Judge. They must be submitted punctually and
with due attention to the instructions printed on the prescribed forms.

4. Reports about Tehsildars and Naib-Tehsildars.—Reports on the magisterial ‘Work
of Tehsildars and Naib-Tehsildars should be sent by District Magistrates to Commissioners direct
and not through Sessions Judge. They should not be forwarded to the Registrar of the High Court.

Reports on the civil judicial work of Tehsildars and Naib-Tehsildars, who have been
invested with civil powers shall be made by the District Judge in the form of a letter addressed to
the Commissioner of the Division concerned enclosing therewith the opinion of the Senior
Subordinate Judge or other Subordinate Judge who has had occasion to judge the work of and
express opinion on the officer concerned. These reports also need not be forwarded to the
Registrar of the High Court.

5. Reporting authority to record his opinion on transfer. Report about officers who
have served for less than 3 months in the districts.—Whenever a District and Sessions Judge or
a District Magistrate is transferred after spending not less than six months in a district, he should


--- Page 535 ---
6 High Court Rules and Orders — Vol. IV
————
invariably leave on record his opinion of the judicial work of all officers who have worked under
his control for not less than six months in the year and these opinions should be used by his
successor in compiling the final report.

If an officer has served under a reporting authority for less than three months, the
officer under whom he has previously served should be consulted and his opinion incorporated in
the report, care being taken to indicate how far the replies to the questions are based on personal
Knowledge and how far on reports of other officers.

6. Reports to be kept confidential and office copies destroyed after 5 years.—With the
approval of Government, it has been decided that office copies of the annual confidential reports
on the work of Magistrates need not be kept by District Magistrates for more than five years, after
which they may be destroyed. These orders apply also to the office copies of the annual
confidential reports on the work of District Magistrates and Subordinate Judges kept by District
and Sessions Judges, and also to annual reports on the work of Honorary Magistrates and
Honorary Subordinate Judges. Great care should be taken to keep these office copies strictly
confidential until the time comes to destroy them; they must be kept in the personal custody of
District Magistrates and District and Sessions Judges and should on no account be sent at any
stage to the office.

71. Forms prescribed to be used.—The revised forms prescribed for the annual
confidential reports on the magisterial and civil judicial work of officers are reproduced in the
annexure to this Part. These forms should be adapted, where necessary, for the submission of
reports on the civil judicial work of officers of Central Civil Service, the magisterial and civil
judicial work of Political Probationers of the Government of Pakistan and the magisterial and civil
judicial work of Honorary Magistrates and Honorary Subordinate Judges.


--- Page 536 ---
7 High Court Rules and Orders — Vol. IV
—————
ANNEXURE
Stereo F.C. No. 381-H.C.
District

Confidential report on the magisterial work of Officers of the central Civil Service, i.e.
Assistant commissioners and deputy Commissioners, Punjab Civil Service
(executive Branch) for the year ending 31st march, 19 .

Name of officer reported on
Appointment held
CCS.
Total length of Service in the-—------------mreemeeeeeee
CCS.
Name of reporting officers (1)
District Magistrate.
0
Sessions Judge,
3),
High Court.
District
TE —
Sub-Division
Powers exercised {
Instructions:--
(1) This report is 1) Sessions Judge on April 2nd.
due with the 2) Registrar, High Court, on April
21st
3) Government on June Ist. each year

(2) If the work on which the officer is employed is specially important or arduous, the fact
should be stated.

(3) ifthe officer has served under the reporting authority less than three months, the officer
under whom he has previously served should be consulted and his opinion incorporated
in the report; care bring taken to indicate how far the replies to the questions are based
on personal knowledge and how far on reports of other officers.

(4) In writing up this report the instructions regarding commendatory letters contained in
paragraph 2 of Punjab Government confidential letter No.14038 (H.-Gaz.), date 23rd
April, 1928, as modified by Punjab Government letter No. 24853 (H.-Gaz.), dated 2nd
October, 1933, to all Commissioners and Deputy Commissioners in the Punjab should
not be overlooked.

(5) In order to make this report more informative, reporting officers should not be content
with merely giving an affirmative or a negative answer to a specific question in the
form of report but should make their remarks as detailed as possible especially on the
point of honesty, (Punjab Government No.9222-G.-38/1134 (H.-Gaz.), dated the 10th


--- Page 537 ---
8 High Court Rules and Orders — Vol. IV
—
January, 1939).

(6) The reporting officer should state the period for which the officer reported on has
served under him. (Punjab Government unofficial reference No.4519-G.-41, dated the
29th April, 1942).

(The report should first comment generally on the way in which the officer has carried out his
various duties during the year and should give an estimate of his personality, character
and abilities, making particular mention of his integrity and freedom from communal
bias and his relations with the follow officers and the general public. It should contain
an opinion on any point specially required at any particular time, c.g., fitness to pass an
efficiency bar.)

General remarks by:--
District Magistrate:--
Sessions Judge:---
High Court:--
SNo. | Reports on the following | Remarks by District | Remarks by Remarks by
specific points should be Magistrate Sessions Judge | High Court
added

1 | Knowledge of law and
Procedure.

2 [Is he methodical and
prompt in disposal of
cases?

3 [Arc his judgments and
Orders well-written and
clearly expressed

4 | (In case of an lllaga
Magistrate).

5 | Docs he make proper use
of the preventive sections
of the Criminal Procedure
Code.

5 | (For District Magistrates

and Sub-Divisional
Officers only).
Is his supervision of the
work of and control over
the subordinate
Magistrates good?

Confidential report on the civil judicial work of officers of the
Central Civil Service i... Assistant Commissioners
Punjab Civil Service (Judicial Branch)
for the year ending 31st March 19___.

Name of officer reported on
Appointment held


--- Page 538 ---
9 High Court Rules and Orders — Vol. IV
———
CCS.
Total length of service in the--------------ss-ssemmmcmeeae
P.CS.
Name of reporting officer ~~
District and Sessions Judge
Period spent in the District
Powers exercised {

Instructions:--

(1) This report is due with the Registrar, High Court, on April 2nd, each year.

(2) Ifthe work on which the officer is employed is specially important or arduous, the fact
should be stated.

(3) If the officer has served under the reporting authority less than six months, the officer
under whom he has previously served should be consulted and his opinions
incorporated in the report; case should be taken to indicate how far the replies to the
questions are based on personal knowledge and how far on reports of other officers.

(4) In order to make this report more informative, reporting officers should not be content
with merely giving an affirmative or a negative answer to a specific question in the
form of report but should make their remarks as detailed as possible especially on the
point of honesty.

SNo. | Heads under which information is required | Remarks by the | Remarks by High

District and Court
Sessions Judge

2 | Is he industrious and prompt in the disposal

of cases?
3 Is his supervision of the distribution of

business among, and his control over, the

Subordinate Court good? (for Senior Sub-

Judges only).
5 | He has maintained a reputation for honesty

and impartiality during the period under

report? (Give reasons for your answer if it

is negative or doubtful).

Is he fit for the exercise of any enhanced

powers? If so which?
7 | Is he fit to cross the Efficiency Bar? (This

question need only be answered when it is

expected to arise during the year following

the report).


--- Page 539 ---
10 High Court Rules and Orders — Vol. IV
————
PART E —- ASSUMPTION AND RELINQUISHMENT OF CHARGE OF
APPOINTMENTS BY JUDICIAL OFFICERS

1. Report of assumptions and relinquishment of charge.—The assumption and
relinquishment of charge of judicial appointments should invariably be reported to the High Court
and the Accountant-General, Punjab without delay.

2. Relieving officers should see that public money and property is duly taken over.—
Relieving officers should in all cases satisfy themselves, at the time of taking over charge, that all
public money or property (including books supplied) pertaining to the office or in the custody of
the officer relieved or the ministerial officers of his Court, is duly taken over and accounted for.

3. Transfer of charge report and key of the safe.—When a District and Sessions Judge
is transferred, the transfer of charge report sent to the High Court should contain a note stating that
the key (and the Treasurer's receipt for the duplicate key) of the iron safe provided for the custody
of Wills has been taken over by the relieving officer.

4. Relieving Officer’s responsibility for deficiency.—Unless the relieving officer
reports, at the time of taking charge, that any money or property is deficient, he will be held
responsible for the deficiency.

5. Certificate to accompany the relinquishing charge report.—Relinquishing charge
report submitted to the High Court by District and Sessions Judge, Judges and Registrars of Courts
of Small Causes, and Subordinate Judges should invariably be accompanied by certificates to the
effect that they have written judgments in all cases in which they had heard arguments.

6. Cases in which charge reports to be submitted to Government.— On the posting or
transfer of a District and Sessions Judge, an Additional District and Sessions Judge, an Assistant
Sessions Judge, a Judge or Registrar of a Court of Small Causes, or an Assistant Commissioner
undergoing judicial training, a charge report will also be submitted promptly to the Chief
Secretary to Government, Punjab.

PART F --- ACQUISITION AND DISPOSAL OF IMMOVABLE AND OTHER
VALUABLE PROPERTY BY JUDICIAL OFFICERS AND THE SUBORDINATE CIVIL
COURTS’ ESTABLISHMENT

1. Rules governing acquisition of immovable property.—Rules relating to the
acquisition and disposal of immovable and other valuable property by Government servants are
contained in Rules 8, 9 and 10 of the Government Servants Conduct Rules, 1925, which are
reproduced below:--

“8. Buying and selling houses and other valuable property. —Save in the case of a
transaction conducted in good faith with a regular dealer or permitted under Rule 9, a
Government servant who intends to transact any purchase, sale or disposal by other
means of movable or immovable property exceeding in value Rs. 200 with a Pakistan
residing, possessing immovable property or carrying on business within the local limits
of the official authority of such government servant, shall declare his intention to the
Provincial Government. The declaration shall state fully the circumstances, the price
offered or demanded and, in the case of disposal otherwise than by sale, the method of
disposal, and the government servant shall thereafter set in accordance with such orders
as may be passed by the Provincial Government:

Provided that a government servant who is about to quit the local limits of his
official authority may, without reference to the Provincial Government, dispose of any
of his movable property by circulating lists of it among the public generally or by
causing it to be sold by public auction.

“9. Holding or acquiring immovable property—(1) No government servant
domiciled outside Asia shall, save in good faith for the purpose of residence, directly or
indirectly hold or acquire immovable property:--


--- Page 540 ---
11 High Court Rules and Orders — Vol. IV
————

(a) within the province in which he is employed or within any province with the

administration of which he is concerned or within a State in India in which he is

employed; or

(b) within any other province, except with the previous sanction of the Provincial

Government; or

(c) within any other State in India, except with the previous sanction of the Governor-

General in Council.

(2) No government servant domiciled in Asia shall, save in good faith for the purpose of
residence, acquire any immovable property in India by purchase or gift, except with the previous
sanction of the Provincial Government.

“10. Control over immovable property held or acquired by the Government servants. Subject
to the provisions of any general or special order of the Provincial Government, every government
servant or candidate for Government service shall make to the Government concerned, through the
usual channel, a declaration of all immovable property in India from time to time held or acquired
by him or by his wife or by any member of his family living with, or in any way dependent upon
him. The declaration shall state the district or the State in India within which the property is
situated and shall contain such further information as the Provincial Government may by general
or special order require.”

2. Acquisition of property for making profit amounts to misdemeanour.—In
connection with the acquisition of immovable property for bona fide residential purposes it has
been pointed out by the Secretary of State, in his Despatch No. 13-Services, dated the 29th March,
1928, that if a person who is employed or concerned, in the collection of revenue or the
administration of justice buys one or more properties for the purpose of making a profit by selling
or letting it to others, he is guilty of a misdemeanour; and Provincial Governments and authorities
empowerred by Provincial Governments in this behalf, have been warned against the exercise of
the discretion given by Rule 9 of the Government Servants Conduct Rules, 1935, in such a way as
to give their sanction to a misdemeanour. The previous sanction of the Punjab Government, or the
authorities empowered by the Punjab Government in this behalf, must, therefore, be obtained in all
cases of acquisitions of property by Government servants, whether for residential or other
purposes, in order that the sanctioning authority may satisfy itself that the proposed action of the
Government servant, in acquiring land or other property, would not amount to a misdeameanour.

[Punjab Government Circular endorsement No. 28656 (H-Gaz.), dated the 9th October,
192&1

3. Previous sanction of the Hon’ble Judges to be obtained for acquisition of
property.—Attention is drawn to the fact that although Rule 9 of the Government Servants
Conduct Rules, 1935 does not prohibit the acquisition of property for bona fide residential
purposes, Subordinate Judge and all judicial establishments are bound to obtain the previous
sanction of the Honourable Judges in all cases of acquisition of property, whether for residential or
other purposes, the purposes of acquisition being clearly stated in application. Indian Civil Service
officers and officers holding “listed” posts serving in the Judicial Department must obtain the
sanction of the Punjab Government through the High Court.

Note: Power to convey sanction in the cases of Subordinate Judges and judicial
establishments has been vested in the Hon ble Judges [Punjab Government Notification No. 21175
— Home Department — Gazette — Powers, dated the 17th July, 1928].

4. Mortgages of a permanent nature on immovable property require previous
sanction.—For the purposes of Sub-Rule (2) of Rule 9 of the Government Servants Conduct
Rules, 1935, the Punjab Government has decided that the term “immovable property” includes a
mortgage of a permanent nature, and, therefore, the acquisition of such a mortgage requires the
previous sanction of the competent authority. A “mortgage of a permanent nature” is one in which
there is no likelihood of the mortgaged property being redeemed by the mortgagor. Each case of


--- Page 541 ---
12 High Court Rules and Orders — Vol. IV
————
this kind will be dealt with on its merits, and normally permission will be given. Where, however,
there are suspicious circumstances, e.g., such as might suggest that undue influence had been
brought to bear, or the conditions of the mortgage are unusually favourable to the mortgagee or, if
the mortgaged land is in the district in which an officer is serving or has recently served,
permission will normally be refused.

[Punjab Government Circular letter No. 19431 (H—Gaz.), dated the 21st May, 1935,
and No. 7990-A.G. 36/1940 (H—Gaz.), dated the 18th January, 1937.]

5. Annual declarations of immovable property.—(a) The Punjab Government has
decided that the declaration referred to in Rule 10 of the Government Servants Conduct Rules,
1935, should be in accordance with Punjab Universal Form No. 76-A, which is as under:--

DECLARATION BY. OF THE IMMOVABLE PROPERTY HELD BY
HIM AND MEMBERS OF HIS FAMILY

Notes: (1) All interests in land of a permanent nature, whether ownership, mortgage, or
hereditary occupancy, should be entered; also dwelling houses.

(2) Members of a family include the wife, sons, father, brothers, or nephews of the
Government servant.

(3) Particulars in regard to family holdings should be indicated separately.

In what district, Tehsil, Description of | How and when acquired REMARKS

Police Station and holding, with (e.g. by inheritance,
village or town area, value and | gifting, purchase, etc.)
situated assessment and in whose ownership
registered
NR AR

(b) The Punjab Government has decided that Rule 10 of the Government Servants Conduct
Rules, 1935, does not provide Government with sufficient information in regard to its officers’
territorial connections or local interests, and has ruled that, so far as the officers serving in the
Judicial Department and the subordinate Civil Courts’ establishments are concerned, acquisitions
of immovable property in India by the wife, sons, father, brothers or nephews of a Government
servant must in all cases be declared in accordance with the said rule 10.

[Punjab Government circular letters No. 33882 (H—Gaz..), dated the 17th November,
1926, as substituted, No. 18732 (H—Gaz.), dated the 20th June, 1934, and letter
No. 8804-G-39/6664, dated the 10th February, 1940].

(c) The Punjab Government has also decided that every such officer and member of the
subordinate Civil Courts’ establishment should write up his declaration annually or record
certificate thereon that there have been no additions to his immovable property during the previous
year or to that or his relatives referred to in the preceding sub-paragraph (5) [Punjab Government
circular letter No. 27850 (H—Gaz.), dated the 11th August, 1932, as substituted, and Punjab
Government letter No. 8804-G-39/6664, dated the 10th February, 1940]. Each District and
Sessions Judge will therefore, submit to the High Court not later than the st February each year
the prescribed declarations in respect of himself and of all judicial officers serving in his Sessions
Division. He will obtain the declarations of members of the subordinate Civil Courts’
establishments serving under his control and keep them with the service books or the character
rolls of the persons concerned.

6. The Punjab Government have decided that benami transactions in which Government
servant appears as the nominal purchaser should also be reported to Government or the authorities
competent to sanction such acquisition, and sanction obtained from them in accordance with the
orders in paragraphs 2 to 4. Any acquisitions of property which a Government servant makes in


--- Page 542 ---
13 High Court Rules and Orders — Vol. IV
————
another’s name should also be similarly reported. All such transactions should also be shown in
the annual declaration mentioned in paragraph 5.
[Punjab Government Circular letter No. 6123-G-40/40509 (H—Gaz.), dated the 15th
October, 1940.]
PART G —- POSITION OF ADDITIONAL DISTRICT AND SESSIONS JUDGES

1. It has been brought to the notice of the Judges that some misunderstanding exists
regarding the position of Additional Judges in relation to the District Judge of the District to which
they are attached. To remove this misunderstanding, they consider it necessary to bring to the
notice of Additional Judges and Additional Sessions Judges the exact position which they occupy
both in administrative and in judicial matters.

2. Additional Judge is subordinate to District Judge in administrative matters.—In
administrative matters, the position of the District Judge is defined in Section 33 of the Punjab
Courts Act, 1918. Subject to the general superintendence and control of the High Court, the
District Judge is to have control over all Civil Courts under that part of the Act and within the
local limits of his jurisdiction; and the Court of an Additional Judge is included among such
Courts by the earlier Section 18. It follows that for purposes of administrative control such as the
grant of casual or other leave, appointment of ministerial staff and general discipline, the
Additional Judge is subordinate to the District Judge; and that all correspondence with the High
Court should ordinarily be addressed through the District Judge.

3. District Judge may assign any of his judicial functions to the Additional Judge.—
In judicial matters, Section 21 of the Act provides that an Additional Judge shall discharge any of
the functions of a District Judge which the District Judge may assign to him; and by Section 34 of
the District Judge may distribute civil business among the Courts under the control in such manner
as he thinks fit. Once the functions of a District Judge have been assigned to an Additional Judge,
the Additional Judge exercises, in the discharge of those functions, the same powers as the District
Judge himself. It is only in respect of the functions actually assigned to him, however, that the
Additional Judge enjoys these powers; and the functions so assigned, will, as a general rule, be
purely judicial functions.

4. Position of Additional Sessions Judge.—There is no similar statutory
provision defining the administrative position of Additional Sessions Judges; but their
position is analogous to that of Additional Civil Judges and they should be regarded as
under the general control of the Sessions Judge. By Section 193 of the Code of Criminal
Procedure, the Sessions Judge is empowered to make over cases to them for trial.

5. Additional Judge to be acquainted with the orders passed by the District Judge.—
All officers who may be posted from time to time as Additional Judges or as Additional Sessions
Judges may be made acquainted with these orders by their District and Sessions Judges.


--- Page 543 ---
14 High Court Rules and Orders — Vol. IV
————
CHAPTER 2
SUPERINTENDENCE AND CONTROL — CIVIL COURTS
PART A — SUPERINTENDENCE AND CONTROL

1. Controlling authority.—The general superintendence and control over all Civil Courts
(other than the High Court) is vested in and all such Courts are subordinate to the High Court.

Subject to the general superintendence and control of the High Court, every District
Court has control over all other Civil Courts in the District (Section 33 of the Punjab Courts Act,
1918).

Courts of Small Causes are subject to the administrative control of the District Court,
and to the superintendence of the High Court (Section 28 of the Provincial Small Causes Courts
Act IX of 1887).

2. Control over establishments of Civil Courts.—The powers of appointment and
punishment of the ministerial and other establishments of Civil Courts are regulated by Section 36
of the Punjab Courts Act, 1918, and by rules to be made by the High Court with the previous
approval of the Provincial Government under Section 241 of the Government of India Act, 1935.
Until these rules are published the existing Rules contained in Chapter 18, Rules and Orders,
Volume 1, remain in force.

3. Control over process-serving establishment.—Under rules framed by the High Court
with the previous approval of the Provincial Government under Sections 20 and 22 of the Court-
Fees Act, 1870, the establishment employed for serving and executing processes issued by all
Civil, Criminal and Revenue Courts, is subject to the control of the High Court. Their conditions
of service are regulated by the rules mentioned in the preceding paragraph.

4. Control over establishments dealing with civil work.-- The establishments of officers
who exercise civil powers conferred upon them under Section 28 of the Punjab Courts Act, 1918,
but are also invested with revenue or criminal powers, are under the control of Deputy
Commissioners acting under the orders of Commissioners and the Financial Commissioners.
District Record Officers being under the control of Deputy Commissioners, the establishments
attached to them are also under the control of Deputy Commissioners. The rule laid down by the
Government on the subject is that:

“Where it is not specially provided otherwise by law, the control of all classes of

district establishments rests with the Deputy Commissioner and District Magistrate of a

district as such, and that in regard to such matters, where it is not otherwise especially

provided by law, the superior officer of the Deputy Commissioner and District

Magistrate is the Commissioner of the Division (No. 896, dated Lahore, 14th

November, 1891 (H.—Genl), from officiating Chief Secretary to Government, Punjab

and its Dependencies, to the Registrar of the Chief Court.)

5. Fixing of cases during casual leave of Sub-judges.—It has been found that some
Subordinate Judges fix dates for proceedings which fall within the period for which they intend to
apply for casual leave. This procedure necessarily leads to adjournments and consequent hardship
to litigants. All Subordinate Judges should therefore submit their applications for casual leave well
in advance of the time at which they intend to proceed on casual leave; and in so doing, they
should arrange, whenever this is practicable, and no cases are fixed for hearing the period for
which they intend to be absent.

6. Circular Orders issued by District Judges.—Whenever a District Judge proposes to
issue a circular order to the Civil Courts subordinate to him dealing with judicial matters (other
than mere office routine such as the distribution of work), he must send a draft of the proposed
circular to the High Court for approval and may not issue it until such approval is obtained.


--- Page 544 ---
15 High Court Rules and Orders — Vol. IV
————
PART B — INSPECTION OF SUBORDINATE COURTS

The following instructions regulating the inspection of subordinate Courts are issued
with the approval of the Provincial Government:--

1. Power of High Court to frame rules for inspection of lower Courts.—Section 33 of
the Punjab Courts Act, 1918, vests the power of controlling the Civil Courts of each district in the
District Judge; and under Section 22 of the Government of India Act, 1935, the High Court has the
power of framing rules for the inspection of subordinate Civil Courts and for the supervision of
their working.

Note: This power of control includes the right of calling for and inspecting the records
of all such Courts (including Small Cause Courts) and of commenting on any irregularity of
procedure or other impropriety for the guidance of the officers concerned.

2. Chapter I-C containing general instructions.—General instructions for the
inspection of subordinate Civil Courts will be found in Chapter I, Part C.

3. Scope of inspection.— The annexed list of subjects for inquiry is intended for the
assistance of officers making such inspections. It is not meant that inspections should be confined
to the matter herein prescribed, nor that each inspection made should embrance all the topics
mentioned.

4. Annual inspection of their own Courts by District Judges.—District Judges should
inspect their own records and Registers and the Nazirs’ registers of each district at least Once a
year.

5. Surprise inspection to check cancellation of Court-fee stamps.—With a view to
preventing fraudulent use of Court-fee labels, District and Sessions Judges and Judges of Courts of
Small Causes should make surprise inspections of their record rooms at least once a year to see
that the instructions regarding the checking, second punching and cancellation, etc., of Court-fee
labels as prescribed in Chapter 4-C of this volume are strictly followed by the official concerned.

The report on the inspections should not ordinarily be forwarded to the High Court
unless it discloses some matter of importance requiring notice by the Honourable Judges.

Memorandum of point to be attended to by Inspecting Officers
Part I - General

1. State of Court-house.—Report on the state of the Court-house, whether it is in good
repair and properly kept and provides adequate accommodation. Notice especially the state of the
record-rooms and the Nazirs’ malkhana.

2. Library.—Notice whether the Subordinate Judges’ libraries are in good order and
under whose charge each library is and generally whether the provisions of Chapter 18 of this
volume are complied with. Note how far each subordinate Court has been furnished with the
‘minimum library prescribed by the High Court. In inspecting other Courts at the headquarters of
the district and Courts at out-stations, notice whether books of reference are sufficient and whether
files of circulars are complete.

Correction slips.—See that correction slips have been duly pasted in their proper
places.

3. Accommodation for the bar.—Report on the arrangements of the Bench, and whether
the accommodation for the Bar is sufficient, and the separation of its members from the bench
complete.

4. Court establishment—Is the Court establishment sufficient and capable? Are there
any unpaid candidates and, if so, have the rules issued by the Provincial Government and the High
Court on the subject been complied with?


--- Page 545 ---
16 High Court Rules and Orders — Vol. IV
————
Part II — Civil Registers

1. Register L—Examine Register No. I (Register of Civil Suits) and check columns 13 to
18 with at least ten records of decided suits still in Court.

Note whether column 16 appears in any case to have been filled in before judgment has
been written, and whether columns 19 to 28 are kept up-to-date.

2. Register X.—Examine Register No. X (Execution of decree), noting whether decrees
are promptly executed, and whether realisations bear or fair proportion to sums in execution.
Check some of the entries in column 19 (noting how may) with records still in Court, and state
whether the officials of the Court appear in any case to be answerable for any default.

3. Register XL—Ascertain from Register No. XI (Objections in cases of execution of
decree) whether objections are properly and promptly disposed of.

4. Registers VI and VIL.—Examine Register Nos. VI (Miscellaneous petitions and
applications) and VII (Applications to sue as a pauper) with a similar object.

5. Register IX.—Examiner Register No. IX (Dates fixed for the trial of suits and for cases
of execution of decree), and trace a few cases not yet consigned to the record-room through their
various stages, nothing whether adjournments are unnecessarily granted, and whether cases are
regularly called up for hearing on dates fixed and action taken. Is it the custom in the local Courts
to enter cases of execution of decree in this register?

6.  Others.—Examine the other civil registers. State whether they are neatly and properly
Kept, and note whether errors and omissions noticed at previous inspections have been corrected
and supplied.

Part II - (a) Regular Suits

1. In whose custody is the bundle of pending records? Is it neatly kept and arranged
according to date?

2. What was the total number of institutions of the previous year?

3. What is the number of the suit last instituted?

4. Has there been any noticeable increase or decrease in litigation during the past twelve
months; and, if so, what is the cause assigned for it?

5. On what dates were the five oldest undecided suits instituted?

6. Do the records of those suits show any unnecessary delay in their decision?

7. Take out ten records at random, and note whether the proceedings disclose any
noticeable irregularity or unnecessary delay.

8. Isa day reserved for execution work? Are execution cases attended to properly by the
presiding officer? Are all orders except purely routine orders written by him?

(b) Execution of decrees

1. Inwhose charge is the bundle of pending records?

2. Isit neatly kept and arranged to date?

3. Howis it kept (that is, by tehsils or only chronologically?

4. What was the total number of execution of decree cases last year?

5. How many applications as have been filed this year up-to-date?

6. Ifdecree-holders are unusually active or passive, note the cause.


--- Page 546 ---
17 High Court Rules and Orders — Vol. IV
—

7. What was the proportion of realization of the amount sought to be realized in execution
of decrees?

8. Examine ten of the records taken at random, and note whether the proceedings show
any noticeable irregularity or unnecessary delay.

9. Does the presiding officer complain of anything which causes his execution file to be
unduly encumbered?

(c) Miscellaneous cases

I. In whose charge is the bundle, and is it neatly and properly kept?

2. How many cases were dismissed in default and how many were decreed ex parse? How
many out of these were subsequently restored? Ascertain by examination of a few records if the
reasons for dismissal, ex parte proceedings and restoration were satisfactory.

3. Examine three cases at random, and note whether they show any unnecessary delay.

(d) General
Ascertain whether decided cases of each kind are sent punctually into the record-room;
and note any instances there may have been of undue delay, and the cause assigned for the same.
Part IV — (a) Nazir

1. Check the registers of receipts and repayments of deposits, and note whether there are
any deposits of long-standing date.

2. Examine Register No. XXIII (Processes served by cach peon), and note whether the
distribution of work is fair. Are any of the process-servers employed on other than their legitimate
duties?

3. Are there any complaints against any of the establishment on account of inefficiency
due to age of any other cause?

4. Does the staff appear sufficient, or in excess of requirements?

5. Examine Miscellancous Register H (Miscellaneous proceedings received from other
Districts and Courts), and ascertain from the entries in columns 3, 6 and 8 whether unnecessary
delay occurs in the disposal of references.

6. Examine Miscellaneous Register K (Property received into the Nazir’s store room)
carefully, and check the correctness of the entries in column 4 by an examination of at least twelve
bundles taken at random. Are the arrangements of the malkhana satisfactory as regards the
preservation of the property stored therein? What officer of the headquarters staff is in charge of
the malkhana (Rule 4, Chapter 10 of this volume) and are the requirements of that and the other
rules herein contained carefully carried out?

(5) Copyists
Who is the officer placed in charge of the copyists’ department? Examine
Miscellaneous Register E. (Applications for copies), and note particularly whether unnecessary
delay occurs in the preparation of copies (columns 6 to 9). Are they any claimed copies in the
copyists’ hands? Are the directions contained in Chapter 17 of this volume carefully followed?
(¢) Records

1. Are the records properly kept and promptly furnished as required for purposes of
inspection?

2. Are the Record-Keepers® Registers, No. XV-Civil (General Register of suits and
appeals disposed of), No. XVI-Criminal (General Register of decided cases) and Miscellaneous


--- Page 547 ---
18 High Court Rules and Orders — Vol. IV

————
Register D (Of files taken from the record-room for reference) properly kept?

3. Are the stamps in the records properly punched according to the orders in force?

4. Are the instructions contained in Chapter 16 of this volume, for the preparation of an
index of papers in judicial proceedings, observed?

(d) Petition-writers
Are the Petition-writers’ Registers properly maintained (Volume I, Chapter 17)?
(e) Pleaders and Mukhtars

Is the Register of Pleaders and Mukhtars required by Volume V, Rules and Orders,

Chapter XIV, duly maintained?
Part V — Inspection of Civil records

In examining the records of pending or decided cases, note especially the following

points:
(a) Original suits

1. Verification and stamping of plaints.—The attestation and verification of plaints; the
proper stamping of plaints, and the proper cancellation of stamps.

2. Summons of defendant.—Whether sufficient time is apparently granted for the
defendant’s appearance, and whether the issue of summons for final disposal is largely or
improperly resorted to.

3. Service of process.—Does the presiding officer pay personal attention to service of
processes?

4. Adjournments.—Are suits heard from day to day? Are adjournments granted without
sufficient cause or without examining witnesses who are present?

5. Proof of service.—Whether proper proof of service has been taken before a case is
heard ex parte.

6. Setting aside ex parte orders.—Where cases dismissed in default or decreed ex parte
are submitted without notice to the opposite side, or without inquiry into the merits of the
application for re-admission of the case to the register.

71. Documents.—Are documents produced at the proper time with the prescribed lists?
Are parties examined about the documents they wish to produce or rely on the prescribed forms at
the first hearing?

8. Documents.—Are documents admitted in evidence duly marked as exhibits, endorsed
and stamped in accordance with the High Court instructions? Are documents not admitted in
evidence returned promptly?

9. Abstract of orders.—Is the chronological abstract of orders regularly and correctly
Kept up?

10. Drawing up decrees.—Are decrees carefully drawn up and do they faithfully embody
the decision arrived at in the judgment? Is that portion of the decree which specifies the relief
granted recorded by non-English speaking Judicial officers with their own hands? Are costs
correctly ascertained and apportioned in conformity with the judgment?

11. Arbitration.—Are submissions to arbitration inordinately frequent, and are the
requirements of the law in reference to arbitration duly observed?

12.  Commissioner.—Is the resort to Commissions for local inquiry or for the examination
of accounts too frequent? Are the rules published in Volume I, Chapter 10, properly observed? Is


--- Page 548 ---
19 High Court Rules and Orders — Vol. IV
————
the evidence taken by a Commissioner filed with his report? Is he subjected to examination by the
Court, and is the Court’s decision ever based exclusively on the Commissioner’s report?

Review of judgment Are reviews of judgment frequently applied for, and, if granted,
are the grounds of admissions sufficient? Is due notice to show cause against application being
granted given to the opposite party?

Rejection and return of plaints.—Is the rejection and return of plaints frequent? And
does it appear from Register No. VIII (Rejected and Returned Plaints) that the grounds for
rejection and return are adequate?

Pauper applications.—Are applications to sue in forma pauperis numerous? Is the
enquiry into the alleged poverty of the applicant made by the Court itself or delegated to a
tehsildar? Does the Deputy Commissioner receive notice of the application and does he take any
(and, if so, what) steps to protect the interests of Government?

(b) Appeals
1. Stamps—Are appeals properly stamped and the stamps duly cancelled?
2. Memoranda of appeal.—Are the memoranda of appeal concisely drawn and
accompanied by copies of the decrees appealed against?
3. Dismissal in limine.—Are the provisions of Order XLI, rule 11 of the Code of Civil

Procedure, observed in a fair proportion of cases, or is the respondent invariably summoned?

4. Judgments—Does the judgment in appeal conform with the requirements of Order

XLI, Rule 31 of the Code of Civil Procedure.

5. Remands.—Are remands frequent? Are they based on adequate grounds and in
accordance with law?
6. Order 41, rule 11.—Is a decree framed in appeals rejected under Order XLI, rule 11?
71. Decree.—Does the decree embody the grounds of appeal?
Part VI — General

General.—Make any suggestions which, in your opinion, would simplify the registers,

etc., and which would facilitate the action of the Courts.


--- Page 549 ---
20 High Court Rules and Orders — Vol. IV
————
CHAPTER 3
SUPERINTENDENCE AND CONTROL — CRIMINAL COURTS
PART A - CONTROL

1. Controlling authority.—In regard to the criminal administration, all Criminal Courts
are subordinates to the High Court.

Every Magistrate, other than the Magistrate of the District, is subordinate to the
Magistrate of the District for all purposes, including that of administrative control. A Sub-
Divisional Magistrate has similar powers of control over other Magistrates in his sub-division.

2. Control of Sessions Judge over District Magistrate and other Magistrate.—
Magistrates are subordinate to the Sessions Judge “to the extent and in the manner expressly
provided in the Code”. (Section 17, Criminal Procedure Code).

District Magistrate should comply will all requisitions for records, returns and
information made by Sessions Judges with regard to any case appealable to the Court of Session
by the District Magistrate or by other Magistrates or referable by that Court to the High Court,
whether decided district, or made by Sessions Judges under orders of the High Court in the
exercise of their duty and superintendence over the subordinate Courts. They should also render
any explanation which Sessions Judges may require from them, and obtain and submit any
explanation which Sessions Judges may require from subordinate Magistrates in order to assist the
Appellate Courts in respect of the classes of cases above-referred to.

3. Subordination of Magistrates to Sessions Judge.—Though Magistrates are not
subordinated to the Sessions Judge in purely administrative matters, by express administration, the
ordinary official channel of communication between them and the High Court, and is required,
moreover, to see that the Rules and Orders of the High Court enactment, the latter is, in all matters
relating to the criminal are duly carried out within his Sessions Division, and to bring to notice any
‘matter requiring attention.

4. Circular orders issue by District Magistrate.—Whenever a District Magistrate
proposes to issue a circular order to the Magistrates subordinate to him dealing with judicial
matters (other than mere office routine such as the distribution of work), he must send a draft of
the proposed circular to the High Court for approval and may not issue it until such approval is
obtained.

No circular addressed to Magistrates, concerning a routine matter, should contain
orders to the police or Prosecuting Agency, as these can be issued separately.

5. Duty of District Magistrate about proper administration of criminal justice.—The
following instructions to District Magistrates are issued with the full approval of the Governor:--

(1) No functions of the Deputy Commissioner can be permitted to override the proper
administration of Criminal Justice, and the Deputy Commissioner should fully recognise that his
duties as Chief Magistrate of the District must be given the foremost place. The peace and good
order of districts depend on District Magistrates taking an active personal interest in all matters
affecting the criminal administration. In order to supervise and control subordinate Criminal
Courts efficiently, it is necessary that the District Magistrate should keep himself aware of the
state of crime in all parts of his district, and should be in daily touch with the course of criminal
business in the Courts.

(2) District Magistrate to hear sufficient appeals to keep himself fully occupied.—
There are, from time to time, numerous occasions on which the District Magistrate can satisfy
himself as to the state of business in any Court and the quality of the work done by the Presiding
Magistrate. Apart from his periodical inspection of Courts, the District Magistrate, even in those
districts where another officer has been invested with appellate powers, must arrange to hear
sufficient appeals to keep himself fully acquainted with the quality of the work of all Courts in the


--- Page 550 ---
21 High Court Rules and Orders — Vol. IV
————
district over which he has appellate powers. It is not possible for a District Magistrate to get a real
acquaintance with the work of the subordinate Magistrate unless he hears appeals from them.

(3) District Magistrate must try original cases.—No practical experience of the
difficulties of the subordinate Magistrates can be granted until the District Magistrate hears cases
himself, and as long as the Deputy Commissioner remains the head of the magistracy he should
be a Magistrate in fact as well as in name. The Judges attach great importance to the District
Magistrate's taking a considerable share in the actual magisterial work of their district in the way
of trying original cases. In certain districts the increasing amount of executive and other work
renders it impossible for the District Magistrate to take the same share in the trial of cases as he
used to take, some years ago, but there are many smaller districts where he can still do so, and
even in the larger districts it is impossible for the District Magistrate to exercise the necessary
control over the subordinate Courts unless, by the occasional hearing of important cases, he
maintains that technical acquaintance with the difficulties of Courts; which is necessary for
satisfactory control.

(4) Scrutiny of monthly statements of criminal work by the District Magistrate.—The
District Magistrate should himself scrutinize with care, the monthly business returns and satisfy
himself from them, not only that the outturn of work is sufficient and the business of the Court
well in hand, but also that the quality of the work is satisfactory.

(5) Daily supervision by District Magistrate.—The methods described above afford only
an occasional method of controlling criminal administration, and in particular the monthly
business statements necessarily bring to the District Magistrate’s Notice, only after long delay, the
occasions on which his interference is desirable. Day to day supervision of the work of the
subordinate Courts is no less an essential part of the District Magistrate’s functions, and is of even
greater importance than the trying of original cases and the hearing of appeals. Without this day to
day supervision it is impossible for the District Magistrate to maintain that constant touch with the
state of crime and of criminal business which is requisite for a proper discharge of the District
Magistrate's duties. The Judges attach the greatest importance to daily supervision, which must
rank as one of the primary duties of the District Magistrate.

(6)  Punctual attendance and surprise visits.—For the business-like discharge of criminal
work, it is necessary that all Magistrates should be punctual in their attendance at Court and
should remain at work during the recognized office hours. It is similarly the duty of the District
Magistrate to be punctual in his own attendance at Court; and without punctuality on his part
punctuality in the subordinate Courts and in the Bar is not to be expected. In order to maintain a
check on the punctual attendance of Officers every District Magistrate should make surprise visits
to the Court of each subordinate Magistrate at headquarters as laid down in Chapter 1-A,
Paragraph 2. Volume II, Rules and Orders of the High Court.

(7) Police Register and its use by the District Magistrate.—A convenient and valuable
source of information for the adequate supervision of criminal business is the Police Department
English register of cognizable offences mentioned in the Police Rule 24.9. This register is placed
before, the District Magistrate on each working day when he is at district headquarters. It gives
information not only of the action of the Police (thus enabling the District Magistrate to
superintend their work) but also affords the means of watching the progress and the results of
business in Court. The practice of merely initialing this register after a hasty glance at it too
commonly prevails, but a few minutes each day spent on considering the entries for the day and
for preceding days will enable the District Magistrate to maintain a close touch with all branches
of the criminal administration. The entries for day bring to light at once the orders of Courts which
are prima facie unsatisfactory and which require the scrutiny of the District Magistrate. The
register, therefore facilitates the making of references to the High Court, and puts the Deputy
Commissioner in a position at the earliest possible moment to initiate proceedings by way of
appeal. It can also be used to disclose cases which have been pending for an inordinate time.

(8) Deputy Commissioner as head of prosecuting agency.—The Deputy Commissioner
is the head of the prosecuting agency in the district and this affords him a further opportunity of


--- Page 551 ---
2 High Court Rules and Orders — Vol. IV
————
Keeping in touch with the work in all Courts. It is easy for him to arrange to be informed by the
prosecuting agency each day of any omission on the part of Courts to record the evidence of
witnesses produced and to investigate promptly any complaint which may be made of dilatoriness
in any particular Court.

(9) Inspection of under-trial section of the jail.—Another check on unnecessary and
unduly long adjournments is to be found in the constant inspection of the under-trial section of the
local jail. Occasional inquiries into cases which seem to call for notice will reveal whether the
adjournments appear to be justified or not.

(10) System of sending up witnesses with the challan.—The Judges are strongly of
opinion that it is necessary to revert to the old system of sending up all material witnesses with the
Challan. This system has been resumed in some districts with very marked success, but it can be
carried out only if the work of Magistrates is so arranged that they shall without delay commence
the trial of Challans presented to them by the police. No excuse for not proceeding at once with a
Challan should be accepted other than that the Magistrate is already engaged on another Challan,
or on a complaint case in which a postponement would work genuine hardship. In such
contingencies the fresh Challan should be proceeded with as soon as the Magistrate is free from
the first case, and it must be impressed upon Magistrates that witnesses should be examined at
once, that the trial must proceed from day to day without interruption, that charges should be
framed without delay and without adjournment for the purpose of considering whether a charge
should be framed or not, and that deference should not be paid to the wishes of an unready bar. If
the presentation of witnesses alongwith Challan renders it impossible on any particular day to
record the statements of witnesses present in complaint cases, the evidence of the latter should be
recorded the first thing next morning before the business of that day is undertaken, and similarly
on any succeeding day the arrears, of the previous day should be disposed of before of the
previous day should be disposed of before the set work of the day. In this way it will be possible to
avoid retaining any witnesses for more than two days at the utmost. Should congestion occur or he
threatened, the Magistrate should apply promptly to the District Magistrate for sanction to fix one
or more blank days in the week to be utilized for catching up with arrears, and the District
Magistrate will find it convenient to receive each day from the Court Inspector a short memo.
showing how the system is working in each of the subordinate Courts.

(11) Arrests reports, remand and completion reports.—All arrests made by the Police
without warrant are reported to District Magistrates under Section 62 of the Criminal Procedure
Code, and all remand orders under Section 167 passed by subordinate Magistrates are similarly
reported. Both these reports should be forwarded to the Ilaga Magistrate, who has already received
the first information report. The Magistrate of the Ilaga is, thus, in a position to know what crime
is under investigation in his Ilaqa, and what cases are likely to reach his Court within the next few
days. The Magistrate is responsible that the completion report under Section 173 of the Criminal
Procedure Code is not unduly delayed, and his responsibility in this respect should be emphasized.
He should insist on the prompt submission of the F.L.R. and of the arrest report, and he should call
for the completion report from the Superintendent of Police if that report is unduly delayed. The
District Magistrate should cause the Ilaga Magistrate to realize that he is not a mere Judge whose
duty it is simply to decide cases produced before him, but that he is at all times responsible for the
maintenance of the peace in the area which is made over into his charge. Every effort should be
made to get the Ilaga Magistrate to take a personal interest in and gain a thorough knowledge of
his own thanas.

(12) Senior Magistrates to exercise supervision in absence of District Magistrates.—The
Deputy Commissioners’ absence in camp must necessarily interfere with his day to day
supervision of the work of the subordinate Courts, but the interference can be minimized if
arrangements are made with the Superintendent of Police that the register of cognizable crime is
submitted each day to the next senior Magistrate at Sadar. That Magistrate, if not exercising the
powers of a District Magistrate, is not authorized to issue orders to the Police but the object is that
he should bring immediately to the notice of the District Magistrate’s cases in which his
interference is called for, and in which magisterial records should be obtained. Similarly the


--- Page 552 ---
23 High Court Rules and Orders — Vol. IV
————
Senior Magistrate can be entrusted with the duties of securing the punctual attendance of
subordinate Magistrates and of seeing that witnesses are not dismissed without their evidence
being recorded or that Challan cases are not delayed.

(13) Avoiding delay in filing revisions and appeals.—Not infrequently cases hape
occurred where undue delay has taken place in reporting for revision the unsatisfactory orders of
subordinate Courts or in moving Government to institute appeals. The delay is largely due to
reliance on the monthly business statements which may not be submitted to the District Magistrate
till a considerable time after the objectionable order has been passed. District Magistrates should
make free use of the register of cognizable crime for these purposes, and should take prompt
action in cases where such action appears necessary. Having done so, they should arrange to be
informed at once of any appeal that may be made to the Sessions Court in a case which has been
reported, and they must report promptly to the High Court first the fact of the appeal having been
filed and later its results.

(14) Consequences of serious slackness of Magistrates.—In conclusion the Judges are
authorized by Government to remind Magistrates that the stoppage of annual increments of pay is
one of the remedies in cases of serious slackness. The Judges will not hesitate to recommend the
application of that remedy in any instance in which they consider it to be merited.

PART B — INSPECTION OF SUBORDINATE COURTS

1. General instructions regarding the inspection of Subordinate Criminal Courts will be
found in Chapter I, Part C.

2. General Instruction Sessions Judges and District Magistrates can comment on
proceedings.—Sessions Judges and Magistrates of Districts are at liberty to comment on any
criminal proceedings called for under Section 435 of the Criminal Procedure Code, even when
there are not, in their opinion, sufficient reasons for submitting such proceedings to the High Court
for revision.

Note — In calling attention to these powers, the High Court desires to impress on
District and Sessions Judges and District Magistrates the great importance of the duty which thus
devolves on them.

3. List of subjects for enquiry.—The annexed list of subjects for inquiry is intended to
assist officers making inspections. It is not meant that inspections should be confined to the matter
herein prescribed, nor that each inspection should embrace all the topics mentioned.

‘Memorandum of points to be attended to by Inspecting Officers
Part I — General — (a) — Registers

1. Is Register No. I (Register of cognizable and non-cognizable offences) duly maintained
in conformity with the instructions contained in the column of remarks opposite that register in
Chapter 24 of this volume?

2. Examine Registers Nos. II (of cases under the Indian Penal Code), III (of cases under
special and local laws and under the Code of Criminal Procedure) IV (of miscellaneous criminal
cases). Note whether appealable cases are correctly entered and whether any delay occurs in the
disposal of cases.

3. Examine Register No. XI (of dates fixed for trial or criminal cases) and check the
entries with the records of at least six decided cases, nothing whether cases are, as a rule, heard on
the dates fixed, or whether postponements are frequent, and when granted whether on sufficient
grounds.

4. Examine Register No. XVI (of Fines) and note whether the provisions of Chapter 11 of
this volume are strictly complied with. State any improvements in the system which your


--- Page 553 ---
24 High Court Rules and Orders — Vol. IV
—
inspection suggests.

5. Examine the other Registers and note whether they are correctly kept up-to-date; also
the Register of summary trials, noticing whether the requirements of Chapter XXII, Criminal
Procedure Code, as to record, are properly complied with.

6. Note whether errors and omissions pointed out at your last preceding inspection have
been corrected and supplied.

(b) Original cases

In examining records of cases, notice specially the following points:--

(1) Are witnesses sent with challans and are they examined promptly?

(2) Are cases taken up from day to day? Are adjournment granted without sufficient cause
or without examining witnesses who are present?

(3) Is the complainant's statement reduced to writing in cases instituted on complaint?

(4) Are such cases, as a rule, referred to the Police or other agency for investigation?

(5) Are processes served by the Sheriff's establishment in all appropriate cases?

(6) Is the evidence properly recorded and in the handwriting of the Presiding Officer?


--- Page 554 ---
High Court Rules and Orders — Vol. IV 25
————
CHAPTER 4
COURT-FEE AND STAMPS
PART A — REDUCTION, REMISSION AND REFUND OF COURT-FEE
(a) Reduction and Remission of Court-fee

In exercise of the powers conferred by Section 35 of the Court-Fees Act, 1870 [as
adapted by the Government of India (Adaptation of Indian Laws) Order, 1937] the Governor of
the Punjab is pleased to make the reduction and remission hereinafter set forth), namely: --

1. Application for refund of price of stamp or renewal of stamp paper.—To remit
the fees chargeable on applications presented to Collector for refund of the amount paid to the
Government for stamped paper which has become spoiled of unfit for use, or is no longer
required for use and on applications for renewal of stamped paper which has become spoiled or
unfit for use.

2. Application for purchase of salt.—To remit the fees chargeable on applications in
writing relating exclusively to the purchase of salt which is the property of the Government.

3. Applications for refund value of stamp on plaint.—To direct that, when a plaint
disclosing a reasonable case on the merits is presented to any civil or revenue Court in such a
form that the Presiding Judge or officer without summoning the defendant rejects it, not for any
substantial defect but on account of an entirely technical error in form only, and so as to leave
the plaintiff free to prosecute precisely the same case in another form against the same defendant
or defendants, the value of the stamp on the plaint shall be refunded on presentation of an
application to the Collector of the district in which the Court is situated, together with a
certificate from the Judge or officer who rejected the plaint that it was rejected under the
circumstances above described, and that the value of the stamp should, in his opinion, be
refunded.

4. Copies of settlement record and list of fields. —To remit the fees chargeable on:---

(a) copies of village-settlement records furnished to land-holders and cultivators during

the currency or at the termination of settlement operations;

(b) lists of fields extracted from village settlement-records for the purpose of being filed

with petitions of plaint in "Settlement Courts:

Provided that nothing in this clause shall apply to copies of judicial proceedings, or to
copies of village settlement records (other than lists of field) extracted as afore-said, which may
be filed in any Court of office.

5. Appeals under Sections 47 and 144, Criminal Procedure Code.—To direct that the
fee chargeable on appeals from orders under Sections 47 and 144 of the Code of Civil
Procedure, 1908, and on cross-objections in such appeals under the same Code, shall be limited
to the amounts chargeable under Article 11 of the Second Schedule.

(Vide Punjab Government Notification No. 16406-Judl., dated the 9th June, 1933).

6. Security bonds for keeping peace.—To remit the fees chargeable on security bonds
for the keeping of the peace by, or good behaviour of, persons other than the executants.

71. Application to forward a petition to the Central Government.—To remit the fee
"The term “Settlement Courts” has been to indicate “Revenue Courts” presided over by Revenue Officers conducting
settlement operations.


--- Page 555 ---
26 High Court Rules and Orders — Vol. IV
————
payable under Article I, clause (c), of the Second Schedule on an application or petition
presented to a Chief Revenue or Executive authority, or to any Chief Officer charged with the
executive administration of a Division when the application of petition is accompanied by a
petition to the Central Government and contains merely a request that petition may be forwarded
to the Government.

8. Private copies.—To remit the fees chargeable under Articles 6, 7 and 9 of the First
Schedule on copies furnished by Civil or Criminal Courts or Revenue Courts or offices for the
private use of persons applying for them:

Provided that nothing in this clause shall apply to copies when filed exhibited or
recorded in any Court of Justice or received by any public officer.

9. Application for deposit.—To remit the fees chargeable under paragraph 4 of clause
(a) and paragraph 2 of clause (b) of Article 1 of the Second Schedule, on applications for orders
for the payment of deposits in cases in which the deposit does not exceed Rs. 25 in amount:

Provided that the application is made within three months of the date on which the
original deposit first became payable to the party making for application.

10. Application to occupy land under Government.—To remit, with reference to
clause (xi) of Section 19 of the Act, the fees chargeable on applications for leave to occupy
under direct engagement with the Government, land of which the revenue is settled, but not
permanently, when made by persons who do not at the time of application hold the land.

11. Application for loan.—To remit the fees chargeable on applications for loans under
the Land Improvement Loans Act, 1883 (XIX of 1883) or the Agriculturists’ Loans Act, 1884
(XII of 1884).

12. Applications for remission or suspension of loans.—To remit the fees chargeable on
applications presented to officers of land revenue for the suspension or remission of loans under
the Land Improvement Loans Act, 1883 (XIX of 1883), or the Agriculturists’ Loans Act, 1884
(XII of 1884).

13. Application for return of impounded document.—To remit the fees chargeable on
an application made by a person to the Collector under sub-section (2) of Section 42 of the
Stamp Act, 1899 (II of 1899), for the return to that person or to the Registration Officer who
impounded it, of a document impounded and sent to the Collector by a Registration Officer.

14. To remit the fees chargeable on the following documents, namely:--

(a) Copy of charge given to accused.—Copy of the charge framed under Section 210 of
the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1898, or of a translation thereof, when the copy is
given to an accused person.

(b) Copy of supplementary evidence after commitment given to accused.—Copy of
the evidence of supplementary witnesses after commitment when the copy is given
under Section 219 of the said Code to an accused person.

(c) Copy of judgment and heads of charge to jury to be supplied to accused. —Copy
or translation of a judgment in a case other than a summons case, and a copy of the
heads of the Judge’s charge to the jury, when the copy or translation is given under
Section 371 of the said Code to an accused person.

(d) Copy of judgment to accused in jail. —Copy or translation of the judgment in a
summons case, when the accused person to whom the copy or translation is given
under Section 371 of the said Code is in jail.

(e) Copy of maintenance order.—Copy of an order of maintenance, when the copy is


--- Page 556 ---
High Court Rules and Orders — Vol. IV 27
————
given under Section 490 of the said Code to the person in whose favour the order is
made, or to his guardian, if any, or to the person to whom the allowance is to be

paid.

® Copy supplied to accused under Section 548, Criminal Procedure Code.—Copy
furnished to any person affected by a judgment or order passed by a Criminal Court,
of the Judge's charge to the Jury or of any order, deposition or other part of the
record, when the copy is not a copy which may be granted under any of the preceding
sub-clauses without the payment of a fee, but is a copy which on its being applied for
under Section 548 of the said Code, the Judge or Magistrate, for some special reason
to be recorded by him on the copy, thinks fit to furnish without such payment.

(g) Copies furnished to lawyers of Government.—Copies of all documents furnished
under the orders of any Court or Magistrate to any Government Advocate or Pleader
or other person specially empowered in that behalf for the purpose of conducting any
trial or investigation on the part of the Government before any criminal Court.

(h) Copies furnished to lawyers of Government.—Copies of all documents which any
such Advocate, Pleader or other person is required to take in connection with any
such trial or investigation for the use of any Court or Magistrate, or may consider
necessary for the purpose of advising the Government in connection with any criminal
proceedings.

(i) Copies required by the Police.—Copies of judgments or depositions required by
officers of the Police Department in the course of their duties.

15. Application for return of document.—To remit the fee chargeable on an application

presented by any person for the return of a document filed by him in any Court or public office.

16. Suit for a share of a revenue paying estate separately assessed. Copies furnished
to lawyers of Government.—To direct that, when a part of an estate paying annual revenue to
the Government under a settlement which is not permanent is recorded in the Collectors register
as separately assessed with such revenue, the value of the subject-matter of a suit for the
possession of, or to enforce a right of pre-emption in respect of, a fractional share of that part
shall, for the purposes of the computation of the amount of the fee chargeable in the suit, be
deemed not to exceed ten times such portion of the revenue separately assessed on that part as
may be rateably in respect of the share.

17. Fraction of an anna to be remitted.—To direct that, if the amount of the fee
chargeable in any case involves a fraction of an anna, the fraction shall be remitted, except
where otherwise expressly provided by this notification.

18. Application for license for sale of stamps.—To remit the fee chargeable on an
application for grant of a license for the vend of stamps.

19. Application for refund of fine.—To direct that no Court-fee shall be charged on an
application for the re-payment of a fine or of any portion of a fine the refund of which has been
ordered by competent authority.

20. Applications for certain copies.—To remit the fees chargeable on application for
copies of documents detailed in clauses 4 and 14 supra.

21. Duty chargeable for probates, etc., of the share of a deceased member of a
company.—To remit the duty chargeable in respect of Probates, Letters of Administration or
Succession Certificates on the share or other interest of a deceased member of a company
formed under the Indian Companies Act, 1913 (VII of 1913): provided that the said share of
interest was registered in the branch register in the United Kingdom under the Indian Companies
(Branch Registers) Act, 1900 (IV of 1900), and that such member was at the date of his decease
domiciled elsewhere than in India.


--- Page 557 ---
28 High Court Rules and Orders — Vol. IV
————

22. Application for suspension or remission of land revenue.—To remit the fees
chargeable on applications presented to officers of land revenue for the suspension or remission
of revenue on the ground that a crop has not been sown or has failed.

23. Application for advice from agricultural department.—To remit the fee chargeable
on applications and petitions presented to a Collector or any revenue officer having jurisdiction
equal or subordinate to a Collector for advice or assistance from the Agricultural Department of
the Province.

24. Fees for succession certificates, probates, etc., of the property of a State servant
in certain cases and for mutation of the property.—To remit as follows the fees on the
property of: (i) any person subject to the Navel Discipline Act (29 and 30 Vict. c. 109), the
Army Act (44 and 45 Vict. c. 58), the Air Force Act (7 and 8 Geo. 5 c. 51) or the Indian Army
Act, 1911 (VII of 1911) who is killed while on active service or on service which is a warlike
nature or involves the same risk as active service or dies from wounds inflicted, accidents
occurring or disease contracted while on such service and (ii) any person, being a Government
servant, Civil Military, who dies from wounds or injuries intentionally inflicted (but not self-
inflicted) while in actual performance of his official duties or in consequence of those duties: --

(a) Where the amount of value of property in respect of which the grant of probates or
letters of administration is made or which is specified in the certificate under Part X
of the Indian Succession Act, 1925, or in the certificate under Bombay Regulation
No. 8 of 1827 does not exceed Rs. 50,000/- the whole of the fee leviable in respect of
that property.

(b) ~~ Where the said amount or value exceeds Rs. 50,000/-, the whole of the said fees in
respect of the first Rs. 50,000/-.

(c) Where any property passes more than once in consequence of such deaths, to remit,
in the case of second and subsequent successions, the whole of the said fees,
irrespective of the value or amount of such property.

(d) The whole of the fees chargeable on applications for mutations of names in respect of
the property of persons mentioned in clauses (i) and (ii) above.

25. Copies of decrees of Courts of Baroda State.—To remit the fees chargeable on
copies of decrees of civil or revenue Courts situate in the territories of His Highness the
Gaekwar of Baroda forwarded to any Court in British India for execution in pursuance of the
provisions of Section 44 of the Civil Procedure Code, 1908 (V of 1908).

26. Copies of proceedings under Section 37 of the Punjab Land Revenue Act.—To
remit the fees chargeable on copies or orders or proceedings under Section 37 of the Punjab
Land Revenue Act, 1887 (XVII of 1887), made or recorded by Collectors or other revenue
officers engaged in revising a record-of-rights under a notification published in accordance with
Section 32 of the said Act:

Provided that the copy is furnished for the purpose of being filed with an application
or petition to a Collector or other revenue officer engaged as afore-said in revising a record-of-
rights or to the Commissioner of the Division, or to the Financial Commissioner, Punjab,
relating to matters connected with the assessment of land or the ascertainment of fights thereto,
or interests therein, if presented previous to the final confirmation of such revision.

27. Application under Section 97 of the Punjab Land Revenue Act.—To remit the fees
chargeable on applications under Section 97 of the Punjab Land Revenue Act, 1887 (XVII of
1887), made by village officers in accordance with the provisions of Rule 64 of the Rules under
that Act published with the Financial Commissioner’s Notification No. 142, dated the 9th
November, 1909.


--- Page 558 ---
High Court Rules and Orders — Vol. IV 29

————

28. Copies of records mentioned in Chapter IV of the Punjab Land Revenue Act.—

To remit the fees chargeable on copies of all ‘records maintained under the provisions of

Chapter IV of the Punjab Land Revenue Act, 1887 (XVII of 1887), when such copies are
exhibited or recorded in any Court of Justice or are received or furnished by any public officer.

29. Application for grant of fishing license.—To remit the fees chargeable on
application for the grant of fishing licenses prescribed by the rules made by the Government of
the Punjab under Section 3 of the Punjab Fisheries Act, 1914 (Punjab Act 11 of 1914).

30. Application to record a statement or sanction a mutation under Section 34(4) of
the Land Revenue Act.—To remit the stamp duty chargeable on the following petitions under
Article 1(b) of the Second Schedule: --

A petition or an application presented to a revenue officer asking him to record a
statement or sanction a mutation under Section 34(4) of the Land Revenue Act, XVII
of 1887, in consequence of consolidation of holdings carried out by the Co-operative
Department in the Punjab.

31. Application to Municipal Notified Area or Small Town Committee or District or
Cantonment Board for copy of document or to a municipal commissioner in certain
cases.—To remit the fee chargeable under Article 1(a) of the Second Schedule on the
applications or petitions noted below:--

(a) Applications or petitions presented to any Municipal Commissioner under any Act for
the time being in force for the conservancy or improvement of any place if the
application or petition relates solely to such conservancy or improvement.

(b) Applications or petitions presented for purpose of obtaining a copy or translation of
any order passed by a Municipal, Notified Area or Small Town Committee or District
or Cantonment Board or of any other document on record in the office of such a
body.

32. Petitions and appeals against orders of punishment by officials in certain cases.—

To remit the Court-fees chargeable under clause (c) of Article 1 or Article 11 of the Second
Schedule, on petitions and appeals against orders of punishment presented under the following
or rules, by officials under the administrative control of the Government of the Punjab:--

(1) The Punjab Subordinate Services, Punishment and Appeal Rules, 1930.

(2) Section 13 of the Punjab Land Revenue Act, 1887.

(3) Rule 16.31 of Chapter XVI (Punishments) of the Punjab Police Rules.

33. Application made to a Magistrate a registering authority under Punjab Motor
Vehicles Rules.—To remit the fee payable under Article 1(a) of the Second Schedule upon all
applications made to Magistrate in his capacity as a registering authority under the Punjab Motor
Vehicles Rules, 1931.

34. Application made to a Magistrate as a licensing officer under Wild Bird and Wild

Animals Protection Rules.—To remit the fee leviable under Article 1(a) of the Second Schedule
upon all applications made to a Magistrate in his capacity as a licensing officer under the Wild
Birds and Wild Animals Protection Rules published with Punjab Government Notification No.
25157, dated the 4th September, 1934.
* Note to item No. 28. The register of mutation is one of the records maintained under Chapter IV of the Punjab
Land Revenue Act, 1887, and no Court-fee is, therefore chargeable on a copy thereof. This item also operates to
remit the fee otherwise due on a copy of the mutation proceeding when presented with an appeal against the mutation
order. (Financial Commissioners” letter No. 4693-E. & S, dated 31st August, 1932).


--- Page 559 ---
30 High Court Rules and Orders — Vol. IV
————

35. Application by a revenue agent for renewal of certificate.—To remit the fee
leviable under Article 1(b) or (c) of Schedule II on an application of petition presented by a
revenue agent to the Financial Commissioners, Commissioner of the division, or Collector of
the District, for renewal of his certificates.

36. Mukhtarnama or vakalatnama by a convicted criminal prisoner.—To remit the
fees leviable under Article 10 of the Second Schedule to the Court-Fees Act on a Mukhtarnama
or vakalatnama executed by a convicted criminal prisoner as defined in Section 3(3) of the
Prisoners’ Act, 1894, provided that the mukhtarnama or vakalatnama is for the purpose of
preferring an appeal or application for revision in a Criminal Court.

37. Application by a lawyer to inspect Court register.—To remit the Court-fee payable
on application made by legal practitioners for permission to inspect Court registers in order to
trace the particulars of a suit or document.

38. Application to Debt Conciliation Boards.—To remit the Court-fee on an application
made to the Debt Conciliation Board for the issue of intimation to the Civil Court.

39. To remit the fee leviable under Article 1 of Schedule II of the said Act upon all
applications of grant of passports and pilgrims passes made to Magistrates and other officers
empowered in this behalf in the Punjab.

“(b) Revenue Department No. 1486-St., dated the 23rd September, 1940.

In exercise of the powers conferred by Section 35 of the Court-Fees Act (VII of

1870), (hereinafter referred to as the said Act) the Governor of the Punjab is pleased to direct
that the following remissions shall be made in the Punjab, namely:--

(1) In case of fees leviable under Articles 11, 12 and 12-A of the First Schedule to the
said Act, on the property of any person subject to the (British) Naval Discipline Act,
the (British) Army Act, the (British) Air Force Act, the Army Act (VIII of 1911), the
Indian Air Force Act (XIV of 1932) or the Indian Navy (Discipline) Act (XXXIV of
1934) who is killed or who dies as a result or wounds inflicted, accident occurring or
disease contracted while on active service against an enemy, or on service which is of
a warlike nature, or which, in the opinion of the Provincial Government, otherwise
involves the same risks as active service; or on the property of any person in the
service of the State who dies of wounds or injuries (intentionally inflicted by a person
other than himself) in the actual performance of his official duties or in consequence
of those duties:

(a) where the amount or value of property, in respect of which the grant of
probate or letters of administration is made, or which is specified in the
certificate under Part X of the Indian Succession Act, 1925, or in the
certificate under Bombay Regulation No. 8 of 1827, does not exceed fifty
thousand rupees, the whole of the fee leviable in respect of that property;

(b) where the said amount or value exceeds fifty thousand rupees, the whole of the
said fee in respect of the first fifty thousand rupees;

(¢) where any property passes more than once in consequence of such deaths, the
whole of the said fee (irrespective of the value of amount of such property) in
the case of second and subsequent successions;

(2) In case of applications for mutation of names in respect of the property of persons
mentioned in paragraph (1) above, the entire Court-fees chargeable under sub-
article (b) of Article 1 of the Second Schedule to the said Act.”

(Punjab Government Notification No. 1007-St., dated the 6th July, 1940, is hereby cancelled).


--- Page 560 ---
High Court Rules and Orders — Vol. IV 31
—_ ea Counfuesanc Orders — or 7 OL
“(c) Revenue Department Notification No. 181-St., dated the 11th February, 1941.

In exercise of powers conferred by Section 35 of the Court-Fees Act, 1870, the
Governor of the Punjab is pleased to remit the fee leviable under Article 1 of Schedule II to the
said Act on an application made by a Collector to a Court under:--

(a) sub-section (i) of Section 61 of the Indian Stamp Act, 1899,

(b) sub-section (4) of Section 19-H of the Court-Fees Act, and

(c) rule 12 of Order 33 of the Code of Civil Procedure.”

(d) Punjab Government Notification No. 1799-St., dated the 8th December, 1941.

Under Section 35 of the Court-Fees Act, 1870 as modified by the Devolution Act,
1920, it is hereby notified that in exercise of the powers to reduce or remit in the territories
administered by the Governor of the Punjab all or any of the fees mentioned in the First and
Second Schedules of the said Act, the Governor of the Punjab has been pleased to make the
reductions and remissions hereafter set forth, namely: —-

(i To direct that in appeal against an order under Order 21, rule 50(2) of the Code of
Civil Procedure, adjudging a person as a partner of a firm against whom a decree is
being executed, the fee shall be the same as in a declaratory suit, namely Rupees ten,
if the fee otherwise payable exceeds that amount.

(ii) To direct that in appeal against a personal decree under Order 34, rule 6 of the Code
of Civil Procedure, when only the personal liability of the defendant and not the
amount decreed is in dispute, the fee shall be the same as in a declaratory suit,
namely Rs. 10, if the fee otherwise payable exceeds that amount.

(Government of India, Legislative Department, Notification No. F. 233/42-C & G (Judl.),
dated the 2nd May, 1942.)

In exercise of the powers conferred by Section 35 of the Court-Fees Act, VII of 1870,
the Central Government is pleased to direct in respect of the Chief Commissioners Province of
Delhi:

(i) That in appeal against an order under rule 50(2) of Order XXI of the First Schedule to
the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (Act V of 1908) adjudging a person as a partner of
a firm against whom a decree is being executed, the fee shall be the same as in a
declaratory suit, namely, Rs. 10 if the fee otherwise payable exceeds the amount.

(ii) That in appeal against a personal decree under rule 6 of Order XXXIV of the First
Schedule to the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (Act V of 1908), when only the
personal liability of the defendant and not the amount decreed is in dispute, the fee
shall be the same as in a declaratory suit, namely Rs. 10, of the fee otherwise payable
exceeds that amount.”

(6) Punjab Government, Revenue Department (Stamps), Notification No. 1803-St., dated
the 18th October, 1943.

In exercise of the powers conferred by Section 35 of the Court-Fees Act, 1870, the
Governor of the Punjab is pleased to direct that Court-fee leviable under Article 11 of Schedule I
to the said Act on a probate of a will or letters of administration and Article 12 of the said
Schedule on a Succession Certificate granted under the Indian Succession Act, 1925, in respect
of a Government Savings Bank deposit not exceeding five thousand rupees shall be remitted.”


--- Page 561 ---
32 High Court Rules and Orders — Vol. IV
————
PART B — DESCRIPTION OF STAMPS TO BE.USED FOR DENOTING FEES
CHARGEABLE UNDER THE COURT-FEES ACT

1. Kinds of stamps.—Section 26 provides that the stamps to be used under the Act shall
be impressed or adhesive.

2. The following rules known as “The Punjab Court-fee Stamp Rules, 1934” have been
made by the Punjab Government for regulating the kind and number of stamps to be used for
denoting fees chargeable under the Court-Fees Act, vide Punjab Government Notification No.
4860-E, & S, dated the 7th August, 1934:--

(1) When fee chargeable less than Rs. 25.—When in any case the fee chargeable under
the Act is less than Rs. 25 and the amount can be denoted by a single adhesive stamp,
such fee shall be denoted by a single adhesive stamp of the required value bearing the
words “Court-Fee”. But, if the amount cannot be denoted by a single adhesive stamp,
or if a single adhesive stamp of the required value is not available, a stamp of the next
lower value available shall be used, and the deficiency shall be made up by the use of
one or more additional adhesive stamps of the next lower values which may be
required to make up the exact amount of the fee.

(2) When fee chargeable is Rs. 25 or more.—When in any case the fee chargeable
under the Act amounts to or exceeds Rs. 25 and the amount can be denoted by a
single impressed stamp, it shall be denoted by a single impressed stamp of the
required value bearing the words “Court-fee.” But, if the amount cannot be denoted
by a single impressed stamp, or if a single impressed stamp of the required value is
not available, an impressed stamp of the next lower value available shall be used, and
the deficiency shall be made up by the use of one or more additional impressed
stamps of the next lower value available which may be required to make up the exact
amount of the fee, in combination with adhesive stamps to make up fractions of less
than Rs. 25.

(3) Fraction of an anna to be remitted.—If in any case the amount of the fee chargeable
involves a fraction of an anna, such fraction shall be remitted.

(4) Certificate in case stamp of the required value is not available. —Where a stamp of
the required value is not available, the purchaser shall obtain a certificate from the
vendor to that effect in the form below. This certificate shall be affixed to the
document and filed with it:---

(FORM OF CERTIFICATE)
“Certified that a single stamp of the value of Rs. required for this document is not
available, but in lieu thereof, I have furnished a stamp of the next lower value
available and made up the deficiency by the use of one or more adhesive/impressed
stamps of the next lower values available required to make up the exact amount of the
fee.

Date: Signature of stamp vendor.”

(5) Mode of affixing adhesive stamp.—An adhesive stamp which may be used under
rule 2 shall be affixed to the impressed stamp of the highest value employed in
denoting the fee, or to the first sheet of the document, to be inscribed in such manner
as not to conceal the value of stamp thereon.

(6) Plain paper may be joined if impressed stamp paper is insufficient for writing the
document.—When one or more impressed stamps used to denote a fee are found
insufficient to admit of the entire document being written on the side of the paper
which bears the stamp, so much plain paper may be joined thereto as may be


--- Page 562 ---
High Court Rules and Orders — Vol. IV 33
————
necessary for the complete writing of the document, and writing on the impressed
stamps and on the plain paper shall be attested by the signature of the person or
persons executing the document.
PART C — CANCELLATION OF COURT-FEE STAMPS
Rules made by the High Court for regulating the cancellation of Court-fee Stamps
RULES

1. Cases when cancellation of Court-fees is to be effected. —The cancellation of Court-
fee stamps shall be effected:--

(a) when a document bearing a Court-fee stamp is received by a Court competent to

receive the same;

(b) when a Court-fee stamp is paid in on account of process-fee;

(c) when a Court-fee stamp is affixed to a document issued by any Court or office;

(d) when the record of a case in which Court-fee stamps have been filed in finally made

over to the Record-keeper for safe custody.

2. Mode of cancellation of stamps on documents received by a Court or received on
account of process fee.—Court-fee stamps falling under clauses (a) and (b) of the foregoing rule
shall be cancelled immediately on receipt of the document or stamp, by such officer as the Court
‘may from time to time appoint, in writing, in the manner prescribed by Section 30 of the Court-
Fees Act. As an additional prosecution, the cancelling officer should affix his signature, and the
date, across each label, at the time of cancellation, in durable ink.

Note: In order to ensure compliance with rules 2, 3 and 4 and uniformity of practice in the
province, it has been decided that round punches shall be used by Courts and offices and
triangular punches by the record room staff. Both kinds of punches are obtainable from the
Controller of Stationery, Calcutta. Care should be taken to see that all round punches in Courts
and offices in a District are of uniform size in order to prevent fraud arising from the stamps,
already punched being punched again with a larger punch.

3. Mode of cancellation of stamps on documents issued by a Court or office.—In
regard to stamps on documents falling under clause (c) of rule 1 the Central Government have
directed in Financial Department resolution No. 3373, dated the 24th September, 1875, that the
Court or office issuing copies, certificates, or other similar documents liable to stamp duty under
the Court-Fees Act shall, before issue, cancel the labels affixed to them by punching out a
portion of the label in such a manner as to remove neither the figure-head nor that part of the
label on which its value is expressed, and that, as an additional precaution, the signature of the
officer attesting the document, with the date, shall be written across the label, and upon the
paper on either side of it.

4. Cancellation of stamps by record-keeper.—The rules for the cancellation of Court-
fee stamps by the Record-keeper are contained in a resolution of the Central Government in the
Financial Department, No. 1763, dated the 24th July, 1873, in which it is ordered that the
Record-keeper of every Court shall, when a case is decided and the record consigned to his
custody, punch a second hole, or, in the case of stamps falling under clause (c), Rule 1, a third
hole, in which label, distinct from the first, and note the date of doing so at the same time.
Special attention is required to the words in italics, as the direction therein contained is always
not complied with. The Record-keeper’s punching should not remove so much of the label as to
render it impossible or difficult to ascertain its value or nature. From the resolution of the


--- Page 563 ---
34 High Court Rules and Orders — Vol. IV
————
Central Government, No. 3047," dated 5th September, 1883, it will be seen that these directions
apply only to adhesive labels used under the Act, and not to impressed stamps which need not be
punched a second time.

5. Certificate required when a record is transferred from and official to another.—
Whenever the custody of a record containing Court-fee stamps is transferred from one official to
another before final disposal, the receiving officer shall examine the Court-fee stamps in the
record and either certify on the index of papers that they are complete, or immediately bring to
notice any deficiency, as the case may require.

6. Record-keeper to see that stamps in the record are complete.—Record-keepers
will be held personally responsible that the stamps appertaining to the records under their charge
are complete, and that they have been duly cancelled in accordance with these instructions.
Should a record be sent into the record-room in which the stamps are incomplete or not duly
cancelled, the Record-keeper shall report the circumstance at once to the head of the office, and
shall defer entering the case in its appropriate register until orders have been passed in the
‘matter.

71. Certificate as to the completeness of stamps when a record is taken out of record
room.—When a record containing Court-fee stamps is taken out of the record-rooms for, any
purpose, each official through whose hands it passes must not on the index of papers or on the
list of records where such a list is with the record, that he has examined the Court-fee stamps in
the record, and that they are complete, or, if then are not complete, at once report the fact for
orders.

Note--1. To facilitate the examinations required by the above rules a column has been
inserted in the index of papers attached to each record which shows at a glance what papers in
the record bear Court-fee stamps, and the number and value of the stamps attached to each of
such papers.

2. Precautions against the fraudulent use of stamps.—Further precautions against the
fraudulent use of Court-fee labels a second time were, under the orders of Government,
prescribed by the Superintendent of Stamps in his Circular No. 1, dated 24th April, 1877, of
which the effective portions are extracted below. It is to be noted that at that time adhesive
labels alone were used to denote fees of Court:--

The most important point to be guarded against is the re-use of stamps which have

once been used; such stamps may have been punched, or they may have been left

unpunched, and passed into the record-office and there removed. In the case of a

removed stamp that has been punched once, it is clear that its use a second time can

only be effected by the dishonesty of the subordinate official who, in the first
instance, receives the document presented by suitors. In the case of a removed stamp
that has not been punched, it is possible that it may have been so little injured in the
removal as to be used a second time without detection, unless the stamps be closely
examined, and it may pass undetected, either from dishonesty or from want of
vigilance on the part of that official. In order effectually to prevent frauds of this
nature, it is absolutely necessary that the subordinate official whose duty it is to see
that the full fee has been affixed in each case and to punch the stamps and to record
orders, should be made to stand or sit within full view of the officer and in that
* Copy of a resolution of the Central Government in the Department of Finance and Commerce, No. 3047, dated Simla, the
Sth September, 1883.

Resolution It was directed in Financial resolution No. 1763, dated 24th July, 1873, that the Record-keeper to every
Court shall, when a case is decided and the record consigned to his custody, punch a second hole in each label distinct from
the first which is prescribed by Section 30 of the Court-Fees Act, and note the date of doing so at the same time.

These directions apply only to adhesive labels used under the Court-Fees Act. Impressed stamps used for denoting Court-
fees need not be cancelled or punched otherwise than as required by Section 30 of the Court-Fees Act.


--- Page 564 ---
High Court Rules and Orders — Vol. IV 35
————
position to perform his task, certifying on each petition that the full fee has been

affixed, and all stamps have been punched. It is of the utmost importance that this
subordinate should be allowed no time or opportunity for tampering with the stamps.

When files of decided cases are sent to the record-room, the Record-keeper should be

required, without any loss of time, to examine the stamps and punch a second hole in

each stamp, affixing the date on which he does so.

8. Instructions to be observed when two or more impressed stamps are used.—The
following executive instructions to be observed when a document is written upon two or more
impressed stamps which are used to make up the fee chargeable under the Court-Fees Act,
1870, have been issued by the Financial Commissioner:--

When two or more impressed stamps are used to make up the amount of the fee

chargeable under the Court-Fees Act, a portion of the subject-matter shall ordinarily

be written on each stamped sheet. Where this is impracticable or seriously
inconvenient, the documents shall be written on one or more sheets bearing impressed
stamps of the highest value, and the remaining stamps shall be punched and cancelled
by the Court and filed with the record, a certificate being recorded by the Court on
the face of the first sheet of the document to the effect that the full Court-fee has been
paid in stamps. The writing on each stamped sheet shall be attested by the signature of
the person or persons executing the documents.

PART D—INSTRUMENTS NOT DULY STAMPED UNDER THE INDIAN STAMP ACT,

1899.

1. Sections 33 to 35 of the Stamp Act are mandatory.—Attention is called to the
provisions of Sections 33 to 35 of the Indian Stamp Act, II of 1899, in regard to instruments not
duly stamped. The procedure laid down in these sections is mandatory and not discretionary;
whatever discretion is permitted under the Act vests in the Collector alone, after the instrument
is before him, and with that the Civil Courts have no concern.

2. Duty of public officers to examine and impound documents not duly stamped.—
By Section 33 of the Indian Stamp Act, 1899, all public officers, with certain exceptions, are
required to examine every instrument chargeable with duty which comes before them in the
performance of their official functions and to impound any instrument which appears not duly
stamped. Every Court impounding on instrument must forthwith note it as “impounded,” such
note being dated and signed with the ordinary full signature of the impounding officer.

3. Conditions on which a document not duly stamped be admitted in evidence.—
Under Section 35 of the same Act, every such instrument, no being an instrument chargeable
with a duty of one anna or half an anna only, or bill of exchange or promissory note, may be
admitted in evidence in a Civil Court if the party desiring to use it shall pay the amount
necessary to make up the proper stamp duty, together with a penalty of Rs. 5, or when ten times
the amount of the proper duty or deficient portion thereof exceeds Rs. 5, then with a penalty of
ten times such duty, or portion. Under clause (b) of Section 35, however, an unstamped receipt
‘may be admitted in evidence against the person who has given it, on payment of a penalty of one
rupee by the person tendering it.

The amount realised under Section 35 should be paid into the local treasury, sub-
treasury, or branch of State Bank, as the case may be, the same day or on the morning of the
next day at the latest and the original treasury or bank receipt transmitted to the Superintendent
of the Collector’s Office together with an authenticated copy of the impounded document as
referred to in paragraphs 5 and 6 below.

Note: So far as the deposit of the amount realised under Section 35 is concerned these
orders may be relaxed in the case of Court which are situated at place where there is no
treasury, sub-treasury, or branch of the State Bank of Pakistan. In such cases the amount may be


--- Page 565 ---
36 High Court Rules and Orders — Vol. IV
————
deposited at the nearest treasury or sub-treasury twice a month or at such intervals as may be
prescribed in the case of other deposits.

4. Certificate to be endorsed on a document admitted in evidence on payment of
duty and penalty. —Section 42 requires that Civil Courts shall certify by endorsement on every
instrument admitted in evidence under Section 35 that the proper duty and penalty have been
levied in respect thereof, and shall also state the name and residence of the person paying them.

5. Duty of Court to send Collector the impounded document or its copy in certain
cases.—Section 38 requires every Civil Court to send to the Collector an authenticated copy of
every impounded instrument admitted in evidence, with a certificate in writing stating the
amount of the duty and penalty levied in respect thereof. The endorsement required by Section
42 should be transcribed on such copy, When an impounded instrument has not been admitted in
evidence whether from failure to pay the requisite duty and penalty, irrelevancy, want of
registration or other cause it must be sent in original to the Collector, in such cases the
provisions of Section 46, sub-section (2), are applicable. The copy to be made under this section
must be retained in the custody of the Court.

6. Return of documents admitted in evidence on payment of duty and penalty. —
Section 42, sub-section (2), entitles any person tendering a document on which deficient stamp
duty and penalty has been levied under Section 35 to reclaim the same, but the proviso to that
section directs that the Court shall not, under any circumstances, deliver such documents before
the expiration of one month from the date of impounding it. If the Collector has certified that the
further detention of such document is necessary, the Court shall not deliver it until such
certificate is cancelled. It is obvious that the transmission of the copy to the Collector should be
made with the least possible delay to enable him to make such inquiry as may be necessary
within the month for which the instrument is to be detained. Every such copy should be
dispatched not later than 48 hours from the time when the original is impounded.

71. Duty or penalty paid may be included in costs.—Any duty or penalty paid under
Section 35, 37, 40 or 41 by any person, which by agreement or under Section 29 or any other
law, another person was bound to pay, may be included in costs or otherwise recovered by the
person paying such duty or penalty as provided in Section 44.

PART E —- STAMP DUTY ON COPIES AND PETITIONS

1. Copies not liable to Court-fee duty.—The authenticated copies required by Section
38 and Section 46, sub-section (2) are not liable to Court-fee duty.

2. Copies liable to Court-fee duty.—The attention of all Civil Courts is drawn to the
annexed circular of the Punjab Government, No. 6-699, dated the 18th April, 1894 (Financial),
on the subject of the levying of stamp duty on copies of documents falling under the Court-Fees
Act and the Stamp Act:

“It has been brought to the notice of the Lieutenant Governor that copies of
documents falling under Articles 6, 7 and 9 of Schedule I of Act VII of 1870 (the Court-Fees
Act) and Article 22 of Schedule I of Act I of 1879 (the Indian Stamp Act) are often submitted
with petitions without being stamped, in the former case the copies being no doubt obtained for
private use.”

“The exemption from stamp duty of copies of documents taken for private use does

not, however, cover the receipt of such copies by a public officer, and the Lieutenant-

Governor is, therefore, pleased to issue the following order for information and

guidance of all officers:

“A copy of a document referred to in Article 6, 7 or 9 of Schedule I, Act VII of

1870, or in Article 22 of Schedule I, Act I of 1879, and accompanying a petition to a

public officer must bear the stamp of the value indicated in the above articles.


--- Page 566 ---
High Court Rules and Orders — Vol. IV 37
————
“Section 6 of VII of 1870 absolutely prohibits the receipt of document not duly

stamped. Every such document should be returned to the sender or presenter. A

petition enclosing copy not duly stamped should, ordinarily, if the consideration of

the unstamped document is essential, be returned to the sender or presenter with a

direction that orders cannot be passed unless it is resubmitted with the copy duly

stamped.”

3. Court-fees on application to Chief Revenue or Executive authority. —Attention is
called to the annexed letter on the subject of the levying of stamp duty on petitions under the
Court-Fees Act.

No. 3790-S.R. dated Simla, 27th July, 1894.
From — J.E. O.’Conner, Esq., Assistant Secretary to the Government of India, Finance and
Commerce Department.

To — The Chief Commissioner of Burma.

I AM directed to acknowledge the receipt of your letter No. 313-2-S-10, dated the
16th April, 1894, requesting, in connection with an application to the Financial Commissioner
from a lessee of certain lead mines in Burma, to dispose of his interest in them to another party,
that it may be authoritatively ruled what are the classes of communications from the general
public to Government which are liable to the duty leviable under the Court-Fees Act, VII of
1870.

2. I am to say that in the opinion of the Governor-General in Council the law does not
require, and was not intended to require, that application of every description to a Chief
Commissioner or other Chief Revenue or executive authority should be stamped under clause (c)
of Article I of Schedule 11 of the Court-Fees Act, VII of 1870. That clause applies only to
petitions and applications in connection with a proceeding which is being taken before a Chief
Commissioner or other authority specified therein with a view to the exercise or non-exercise of
some power or authority conferred upon him by some law or rule having the force of law.

3. Iam to request that this view may be acted upon in future.

PART F — AUDIT AND CONTROL OF STAMP REVENUE IN THE PUNJAB

The following instructions for the audit and control of Stamp Revenue in the Punjab,
are issued by the Governor in Council sitting with his Ministers, the High Court of Judicature at
Lahore, and the Financial Commissioners, in their judicial capacity, for the guidance of the
officers and Courts under their respective control:---

RULES

(1)  Title.—(1) These rules shall be termed “The Punjab Stamp Audit Instructions, 1933.”

(2) Appointment of Stamp Auditor.—There shall be appointed a Stamp Auditor for
purpose of the audit of every document requiring a stamp which is presented to a Court of law
other than the High Court or a public order.

(3) Controlling Authority.—The Financial Commissioner as the Chief Controlling
Authority will determine the districts within the jurisdiction of each auditor and fix his
headquarters. The auditors shall be under the direct control of the Commissioner of the division
in which they are from time to time operating and shall be authorized by the Collector in writing
in the term of Section 73 of the Indian Stamp Act.

(4) Tour programme of auditors.—The auditor shall prepare a bi-monthly programme
of his tour by districts and after obtaining the approval of the Financial Commissioner give due
notice to the Collector of the district concerned and the Commissioner of the division of his


--- Page 567 ---
38 High Court Rules and Orders — Vol. IV
————
forthcoming visit.

The auditor shall spend the least possible time on traveling and more time on actual
audit work. He shall visit each district in his charge once a quarter and spend about eight days at
the headquarters of a district and two days at each tehsil.

(5) Scope of audit.—The auditor shall, on visiting a district, audit all fresh institutions,
documents and files pending or otherwise in all Courts and registration and other offices
including record-rooms. Such inspection shall be from the date on which the last audit
terminated.

The auditor shall, in particular, see that the stamps used are genuine and have not
been removed from files and re-used.

(6) Registered stamp deficiency.—Every person described in Section 33 of the Indian
Stamp Act and every public official referred to in Section 6 of the Court Fees Act shall maintain
a record of stamp deficiencies in Civil Register XVIII. The Collector shall, in addition to the
said register maintained by him in respect of his own Court, maintain a register in form S. A. 5,
of documents sent to him maintained in respect of all deficiencies whether found in audit or
independently.

(7) Auditor to check these register.—The auditor shall examine the register No. XVIII
maintained by the Court or office with a view to seeing that it is properly maintained and that
collections are made not only on account of deficiencies detected in audit but on account of
deficiencies detected independently. He shall also examine the register maintained by the
Collector in Form S. A. 5.

(8) Deficiencies in stamps to be notified to the Collector.—Once a case has been
decided and consigned to the record-room, deficient Court-fees are not recoverable under the
existing law; instances, therefore, of such short recoveries in Court-fees as may be brought to
light in the general record-room will merely serve the purpose of educating readers and
moharrirs or taking disciplinary action against them. But deficiencies in stamp duty may be
brought to the notice of the Collector of the district with a view to action under Section 61 of the
Stamp Act.

(9) Help to be rendered to the auditor by the Courts and officials. —The presiding
officers of all Courts and heads of offices will give the auditor access to all records and
accounts, etc., and, so far as lies in their power, assist him in the performance of his duties.

(10) Auditor to draw attention of officers as to their powers and duty re-insufficiently
stamped documents.—In the course of his audit the auditor shall draw the attention of presiding
officers of Courts and heads of offices to documents before them which are insufficiently
stamped, and shall advise them where necessary in relation to their powers and obligations as
follows: ---

(i) Under the Stamp Act:

(a) To impound documents under Section 33 of the Stamp Act.

(b) To admit unstamped documents in evidence under Section 35.

(6) To dispose of impounded documents under Section 38, cases coming before
him under Sections 39 to 43 and also seek any other assistance which he may
consider necessary.

(ii) Under the Court-Fee Act:

To determine correct fee leviable on any document. The auditor, it necessary,
will discuss the point at issue with the presiding officer and if required by him


--- Page 568 ---
High Court Rules and Orders — Vol. IV 39
————
be present at the discussion in Court before orders are passed.

(11) Register S. A. 1.—The auditor will maintain for each district a register in Form S.A.
1, in which he will note as it is discovered, each deficiency in stamp duty and Court-fees.

(12) Officers to whom copy of audit note is to be sent.—After discussions of his
preliminary notes with the presiding officer or head of office, the auditor will prepare a formal
audit note and send typewritten copies to the presiding officer or the head of the office, as the
case may be, and to the Collector to the district concerned. This not will include a statement in
form S.A. 3, of deficiencies discovered, and columns 1 and 6 to 15 will be left blank.

Copies of audit notes on Revenue Courts and offices, including Sub-Registrars,
should also be sent to the Commissioner of the division. In the case of Civil Courts, where the
audit discloses some serious defects, a copy of the audit note should be sent to the District and
Sessions Judge through the Collector of the district.

(13) Action to be taken. Audit Note, Form S. A. 3.—The presiding officer of the Court
or the head of the office shall transfer columns 2 to 5 of Form S. A. 3 to Civil Register XVIII
and proceed to take necessary action on the note. In cases where he does not agree with the
auditor or where he considers it necessary to hear the party concerned before passing order, he
shall, where possible, discuss the matter with the auditor. The presiding officer or head of the
office will return the Form S. A. 3 to the auditor after completing columns, 1, 6 to 8 and noting
in column 15, the cases, if any, in which he disagrees with the auditor, but without necessarily
completing columns 9-14. The auditor after completing his register will return the form to the
Court or office and report to the Collector any case in which the presiding officer or head of the
office has been unable to take the advice of the auditor. The Collector (if he thinks fit and after
consulting the Financial Commissioner, if necessary) will take action under Section 61 of the
Stamp Act, or in the case of the Court-Fees Act, draw the attention of the Appellate Court, or
take other appropriate action in the case of other offices.

(14) Posting of recoveries in proper register and writing and writing off irrecoverable
items.—All Courts and offices shall, in addition to the account of recoveries effected by them in
Civil Register XVIII, show recoveries effected at the instance of the stamp auditor in columns
10 and 11 of the said register and also S.A. 3. Irrecoverable loss of stamp revenue is required to
be written off under paragraph 20.19 of the Book of Financial Powers, and shall be entered in
columns 18 and 19 of register XVIII and columns 11 and 12 of Register S.A. 3. They shall also
send to the auditor at the end of each month, their copies of Form S.A. 3 so that he may
complete his returns of recoveries made at his instance from time to time and irrecoverable
items written off, after which he will return the form of the Court or office. If the Court of
office has sent a document to the Collector under Section 38 of the Stamp Act, it will have no
concern with columns 9 to 12.

(15) Action to be taken by auditors re pauper suits Register S. A. 5.—Special attention
shall be paid by the auditors to pauper suits and all their stages carefully watched while they are
pending in Courts. After their disposal the auditors shall draw the attention of the Collector to
the Court-fees realizable, and shall suggest to him what steps will ensure early realization. When
a Court fails to pass an order for costs, the auditor shall advise the Collector to move the Court
concerned under Order 33, Rule 12, Civil Procedure Code. The auditor shall keep a register of
all such cases in Form S. A. 5.

(16) Auditor to check applications for refund of value of stamps and register of stamp
vendors.—The auditor shall, at the time of his visit to a district, inspect the applications for
grant of refund of the value or renewal of spout and unused Court-fee and non-judicial stamps
and register maintained by the Refund Clerk and report the result of his inspection to the
Collector of the district.

The auditor shall also inspect the registers of stamp vendors and check their stock of


--- Page 569 ---
40 High Court Rules and Orders — Vol. IV
————
stamps.

(17) Defects in the vend arrangements to be brought notice of the Collector.—The
auditor shall bring to notice of the Collector defect in the vend arrangements and make
suggestions where necessary for improvement of the arrangements.

(18) Monthly reports by auditors Form S. A. 4.—The auditors shall monthly submit
reports by districts to the Assistant Secretary to Financial Commissioners through the Collector
and Commissioner.

In these reports the auditors should give details of the period spent, and of the work
done on each day. They should also state the total number of cases examined by them and note
separately for each district the total number of deficient stamp duty discovered and recovered at
their instance under the following heads: ---

(1) on plaints;

(2) on copies;

(3) on applications; etc.

(4) on process fees;

(5) on objection petitions;

(6) on power-of-attorney;

(7) on security bonds, etc., filed in Courts;

(8) on miscellancous petitions in the English record; and

(9) on documents filed by the parties.

The report shall be accompanied by a statement in Form S. A. 4. showing district
totals and also copies of the audit notes on the Courts and offices audited.

(19) Certificate in form S. A. 6. to be attached to traveling allowance bills by
auditors.—In support of their claims for traveling allowance the auditors will obtain from the
presiding officers of Courts and Collectors a certificate in Form S.A. 6 and attach A to their
‘monthly traveling allowance bills.

(20) Review of stamp audit system by Financial Commissioner.—The Local Audit
Department is relieved of the audit of stamp duty and Court-fees.

A brief account of the work done under this system shall be included by the Financial
Commissioners in their annual note on the Stamp Administration.

(Punjab Government U.O. No. 418-P.F.-47-S, dated the 19th May, 1933).

2. The forms prescribed in these rules may be obtained on indent from the
Superintendent, Government Printing, Punjab.


--- Page 570 ---
High Court Rules and Orders — Vol. IV 41
F.Cs. Stereo A & T. No. 351.
(Form S.A. 1)
District of
REGISTER OF STAMP DEFICIENCES DISCOVERED BY THE AUDITOR (AUDITOR’S REGISTER)
Serial No. Court or office No. of suit. | Brief particular of | Deficiency in | State if case has | Penalty if any
and name of suit or case stamp duty or been sentto | under Section 35
presiding officer Court-fees Collector under | of the Stamp Act.
discovered Section 38 of
Stamps Act.
[vv [2 1 5 [a Ts 6 1 |
EN EN ES ES I
Remarks
the Auditor the auditor by competent authorit
Duty Penalty under Duty Penalty under Duty Penalty
Section 35 of Section 35 or 40
Stamp Act of Stamp Act
[se To 7 0 [wm wm [ns [ww
EE I


--- Page 571 ---
4 High Court Rules and Orders — Vol. IV
F.Cs. Stereo A & T. No. 353.
(Form S.A. 3)
NOTE OF DEFICIENCIES DISCOVERED IN AUDIT TO BE SUBMITTED TO COURT OR OFFICE CONCERNED WITH HIS
INSPECTION NOTE BY THE AUDITOR
DISTRICT. COURT ON OFFICE
Serial No. in No. of suit | Brief particulars | Deficiency in Serial No. in | State if sent to | Duty recoverable
civil register of suit or case stamp duty or | register S.A. I | Collector under | under section 35
XVII Court-fees Section 33 of | of Stamp Act or
discovered Stamp Act. under the Court
Fee Act
EE FE A
Penalty Recovered Written off as irrecoverable by Remarks
imposed competent authori
under section | Duty Penalty Duty Penalty | Duty (column 7 — | Penalty (column
35 of Stamp columns 9 and | 8 — column 10
Act 11) and 12)
[8 [oo [wo [mw [we [wm ws
rrr rr]


--- Page 572 ---
High Court Rules and Orders — Vol. IV 43
F.Cs. Stereo A & T. No. 353.
(Form S.A. 4)
STATEMENT SHOWING DEFICIENCIES IN STAMP DUTY AND COURT-FEES DISCOVERED BY STAMP AUDITOR
AND RECOVERIES MADE BY COURTS AND COLLECTORS OF THE DISTRICTS DURING THE MONTH 104
(To be submitted by the Auditors to the Financial Commissioners monthly)

District | Deficiencies in Court- | Deficiency in Court- TOTAL OF Recoveries made by Recoveries made
fees and stamp duty | fees and stamp duty COLUMNS Courts and Collectors | during the previous
discovered during the | discovered during the at the instance of the ‘months

month previous month 2&4 3&5 auditor during the
month

[Cv [2 [5 [4 [5 | 6 [7 [ 8 [ 9 [10 [nun |

Amount written off as Amount written off as TOTAL OF COLUMNS BALANCE Remarks

irrecoverable during the irrecoverable during

month previous month
Duty Penalty Duty Penalty | 8,10, 12& | 9, 11, 13& | Column 6— | Column7—
14 13 Column 16 | Column 17

I EC NL LC LA EL NJ NL


--- Page 573 ---
4 High Court Rules and Orders — Vol. IV
F.Cs. Stereo A & T. No. 353.
(Form S.A. 5)
District_
REGISTER OF DEFICIENCIES IN STAMP DUTY DEALT WITH BY THE COLLECTOR
BRIEF DEMAND REOCERED WRITTEN OFF BALANCE
PARTICULA 5 |, |& AS
R OF CASE g |= S IRRECOVERABL
ER :
EE |z E
El. [2% |2
. £8 (3 |8 [3 Z
BN : | E FE-E »
E [2 |% [2 |5./E.|z22 |
s |= H ge |£ | gg Eg 34 28 Fl
Z|% |§& |g |: EE SE ze 8 Hl
FF [E58 zg 2 El-T] £5 . g
3 5 5 s 85 58 +2 sz > EF]
“le |g [5 |: |E%:° E88 |Z | |Z |2Ez 2 E22
| § |£|E |Z |E |E4 ZF | |Z | |s5|E EEE:
El E Sg (23s | 2 |& |g3® [2 [3° |=
= |g Ed |s | |3 2% =<
£12 |Z 2 |= [3 Z3
2 ki S Hl g gs
E 2 Ele |B 58
Z £ E52 gz
Z i |Z |g g
a = Zz
EC NC NC I I I A A A EA EA
Rs. Rs. Rs. Rs. Rs. Rs. Rs. Rs.
AP | AP | AP | AP AP. | AP. AP | AP


--- Page 574 ---
High Court Rules and Orders — Vol. IV 45
————

F.Cs., Stero. A & T No. 356.

(FORM S. A. 6).

Certified that , Stamp auditor, started audit in this
Court/Office on and audited the stamp and Court-fee accounts of this Court of
place/office for days.

Place Signature of Presiding
Dated Officer of Court, or Head of Office.
PART- G: — AUDIT AND CONTROL OF STAMP REVENUE IN THE DELHI
PROVINCE

The following instructions for the audit and control of stamp revenue in the Delhi
Province are issued by the Chief Commissioner in consultation with the Honourable Judges of
the High Court for the guidance of all officers and Courts under their respective control:--

RULES

1. Title.—These rules shall be termed “The Delhi Stamp Audit Instructions, 1939”.

2. Appointment of stamp auditor.—There should be appointed a stamp auditor for the
purpose of the audit of every document requiring a stamp which is presented to a Court of law
other than the High Court, or to a public officer.

3. Controlling authority.—The auditor shall be under the direct control of the Chief
Commissioner and shall be authorized by the Collector in writing in the terms of Section 73 of
the Indian Stamp Act.

4. Monthly programme of auditor.—The Auditor shall prepare a monthly programme
of audit and after obtaining the approval of the Chief Commissioner to it, give due notice to
Presiding Officers of Courts and heads of offices of the work which he proposes to do.

5. Scope of audit.-- The auditor shall audit all fresh institutions, documents, and files
pending or otherwise in all Courts and registration and other offices including record rooms.
Such inspection shall be from the date on which the last audit terminated.

The auditor shall, in particular, see that the stamps used are genuine and have not
been removed from files and re-used.

6. Registers of stamp deficiency.-- Every person described in Section 33 of the India
Stamp Act and every public official referred to in Section 6 of the Court-Fees Act shall maintain
a record of stamp deficiencies in Civil Register No. XVIII. The Collector shall, in addition to
the said register maintained by him in respect of his own Court, maintain a register in Form S.
A. 5 of documents sent to him under Section 38 of the Stamp Act. These registers shall be
maintained in respect of all deficiencies whether found in audit or independently.

7. Register to be checked by auditor.—The auditor shall examine the register No.
XVIII maintained by each Court or office with a view to seeing that it is properly maintained
and that collections are made not only on account of deficiencies detected in audit but on account
of deficiencies detected independent. He shall also examine the register maintained by the
Collector in Form S.A. 5.

8. Deficiencies in stamps to be notified to the Collector.—Once a case has been
decided and consigned to the record-room, deficient Court-fee are not recoverable under the
existing law, instances, therefore, of such short recoveries in Court-fees as may be brought to
light in the general record-room will merely serve the purpose of educating readers and
moharrirs or taking disciplinary action against them. But deficiencies in stamp duty may be


--- Page 575 ---
46 High Court Rules and Orders — Vol. IV
————
brought to the notice of the Collector with a view to action under Section 61 of the Stamp Act.

9. Facilities to be afforded to the auditor.—The presiding officers of all Courts and
heads of offices will give the auditor access to all records and accounts, etc., and, so far as lies
in their power, assist him in the performance of his duties.

10. Auditor to draw attention of officers as to their powers and duties insufficiently
stamped documents.—In the course of his audit the auditor shall draw the attention of presiding
officers of Courts and heads of offices to documents before them which are insufficiently
stamped, and shall advise them where necessary in relation to their powers and obligations as
follows: --

(i) Under the Stamp Act:

(a) to impound documents under Section 33 of the Stamp Act.

(b) To admit unstamped documents in evidence under Section 35.

(6) To dispose of impounded documents under Section 38. The Collector may also
ask the auditor to note on cases coming before him under Sections 39 to 43 and
also seek any other assistance which he may consider necessary.

(ii) Under the Court-Fees Act:-

To determine correct fee leviable on any document. The auditor, if necessary,
will discuss the point at issue with the presiding officer and, if required by
him, be present at the discussion in Court before orders are passed.

11. Register S.A. 1.—The auditor will maintain a register in Form S. A. 1, in which he
will note as it is discovered, each deficiency in stamp duty and Court-fees.

12. Officers to whom copy of audit note to be sent.—After discussion of his
preliminary notes with the presiding officer or head of office, the auditor will prepare a formal
audit note and send typewritten copies to the presiding officer or the head of the office, as the
case may be, and to the Collector. This note will include a statement in form S. A. 3 of
deficiencies discovered, and columns 1 and 6 to 15 will be left blank.

Copies of audit notes on revenue Courts and offices, including Sub-Registrars, should
also be sent to the Chief Commissioner, Delhi. In the case of Civil Courts, where the audit
discloses some serious defects, a copy of the audit note should be sent to the District and
Sessions Judge through the Collector.

13. Action to be taken on audit note Form S.A. 2.—The presiding officer of the Court
or the head of the office shall transfer columns 2 to 5 of Forms S. A. 3 to Civil Register No.
XVIII and proceed to take necessary action on the note. In case where he does not agree with
the auditor or where the considers it necessary to hear the party concerned before passing
orders, he shall, where possible, discuss the matter with the auditor. The presiding office or
head of the office will return the form S. A. 3 to the auditor after completing columns 1 and 6 to
8 and noting in column 15, the cases, if any, in which he disagrees with the auditor, but without
necessarily completing columns 9-14. The auditor after completing his register will return the
form to the Court or office and report to the Collector any case in which the presiding officer or
head of the office has been unable to take the advice of the auditor. The Collector (if he thinks
fit and after consulting the Chief Commissioner, if necessary) will take action under Section 61
of the Stamp Act, or in the case of the Court-fee Act, address the Appellate Court, or take other
appropriate action in the case of other offices.

14. Posting of recoveries in proper registers and writing off irrecoverable items. —All
Courts and offices shall, in addition to the account of recoveries effected by them in civil
register XVIII, show recoveries effected at the instance of the Stamp auditor in columns 10 and


--- Page 576 ---
High Court Rules and Orders — Vol. IV 47
———
11 of the said register and also in register S. A. 3. Irrecoverable loss of stamp revenue is
required to be written off under Article 227 of Civil Account Code, Volume 1, and shall be
entered in columns 18 and 19 of register No. XVIII and Columns 11 and 12 of register S. A. 3.
They shall also send to the auditor at the end of each month, their copies of register S.A. 3, so
that he may complete his returns of recoveries made at his instance from time to time and
irrecoverable items written off, after which he will return the form to the Court or office. If the
Court of office has sent a document to the Collector under Section 28 of the Stamp Act, it will
have no concern with columns 9 to 12.

15. Action to be taken by ancestors re pauper suits Register S. A. 5.—Special attention
shall be paid by the auditor to pauper suits and all their stages carefully watched while they are
pending in Courts. After their disposal the auditor shall draw the attention of the Collector to the
Court-fees realizable, and shall suggest to him what steps will ensure early realization. When is
Court fails to pass an order for costs, the auditor shall advise the Collector to move the Court
concerned under Order 33, Rule 12, Civil Procedure Code. The auditor shall keep a register of
all such cases in form S. A. 6.

16. Auditor to check applications for refund of value of stamps and also register of
stamp vendors.—The auditor shall also inspect the applications for grant of refund of the value
or renewal of spoilt and unused Court-fee and non-judicial stamps and register maintained by the
Refund Clerk and report the result of his inspection to the Collector.

The auditor shall also inspect the registers of stamp vendors and check their stock of
stamps.

17. Defects in arrangement for sale of stamps.—The auditor shall bring to the notice of
the Collector defects in the vend arrangements and make suggestions where necessary for
improvement of the arrangements.

18. Monthly reports by auditors.—The auditor shall monthly submit report to the
Registrar to the Chief Commissioner through the Collector.

Form S. A. 4.—In these reports the auditor should give details of the period spent, and of
the work done on each day. He should also state the total number of cases examined by him and
note the total number of deficient stamp duty discovered and recovered at his instance. The
report shall be accompanied by a statement in Form S. A.4.

19. Certificate to be attached to traveling allowance bills.—In support of his claims for
traveling allowance the auditor will obtain from the presiding officers of Court and Collector a
certificate in Form S. A. 6 and attach it to his monthly traveling allowance bills.

20. Review of stamp Audit System.—The total Audit Department is relieved of the audit
of stamp duty and Court-fees.

A brief account of the work done under this system shall be included in the Annual
Administration Report.”


--- Page 577 ---
48 High Court Rules and Orders — Vol. IV
————
CHAPTER 5
PROCESS FEES
A — Remarks and Directions

1. Table of fees to be exhibited in each Court house.—A table of the fees chargeable
on processes should be exhibited in each Court in some conspicuous place.

2. Fee on criminal processes.—The Court-Fees Act, Section 20, clause (ii), restricts the
levy of a fee on criminal processes to non-cognizable cases. The fee for such processes has been
fixed at a uniform rate of Eight Anna.

3. Agency for service of criminal processes on which fee is levied. —Every criminal
summons for the service of which a fee is levied under the rules framed by the High Court
under Section 20 of the Court-Fees Act (VII of 1870) shall be served by the process-serving
establishment of the Court issuing the summons.

4. Recovery of process fee from accused as a fine in certain cases.—Courts are
reminded that, under Section 546-A of the Code of Criminal Procedure, in cases of conviction
of an accused of the offence of wrongful confinement, wrongful restraint, or of any non-
cognizable offence, the Court may by its order direct that the accused should pay to the
complainant any sum that he may have expended in issue of processes; and such sum may be
recovered in the manner provided for recovery of fines.

5. Controlling authority over process serving agency, Registers and accounts to be
kept and returns submitted by all Courts.—Notwithstanding the separation of the Revenue
from the Civil Courts, the control over income derived from process fees in all Revenue Courts
and Revenue Offices, and the expenditure on establishment, etc., from this source, is still, at the
desire of the Financial Commissioners, retained by the High Court, to which all references on
the subject should be made as heretofore. It will be necessary for Commissioners and District
Courts to maintain the registers and accounts prescribed by these rules and orders, and to submit
the annual returns, in the prescribed form.

For the purpose of the rules under Part B, Revenue Courts and Revenue Officers have
been divided into three grades as follows: ---
Court Grade

Financial Commissioners First Grade

Commissioners Second Grade

Collectors and Assistant Collecetors Third grade

6. Diary of process-fees, Receipts for process-fees, Preparation and issue of
processes.--No process shall be prepared or issued until the proper fee for the service thereof
has been paid, but as soon as the process fee (talbana) is paid by a litigant, his agent or his
pleader, a receipt in the form given below shall be granted by the ahlmad or other official
receiving the same, and thereafter the Court-fee label denoting the fee shall be affixed to the
diary of process fee and immediately punched. The process shall then be prepared but it will be
left to the party who applied for the process © issue it or not as he thins fit. This will obviate the
necessarily for making any refund of the value of Court-fee filed on account of processes which
are not eventually issued.

71. Particulars to be noted on processes issued.—On every process issued from any
Court the following particulars shall be recorded, namely: (1) the name of the process-server
deputed to serve or execute the same; (2) the period within which the process-server is required
to certify service of execution; (3) the amount of fee paid and the date of payment; and (4) date


--- Page 578 ---
High Court Rules and Orders — Vol. IV 49
————
of return after service or execution.

Such endorsements shall be signed by the Civil Nazir or Naib Nazir, or Bailiff.

8. Accounts of process-fees and costs of establishment to be maintained.—An
account of Court-fee stamps realized as process fee of processes issued (civil and criminal), of
the number of process-servers employed, of the cost of establishment and of contingencies shall
be kept for each Court where a separate establishment is entertained.

9. Review of process-serving establishment in civil report.—A statement giving
information on the above points should be submitted with the annual civil reports.

10. Diary of process-fees.—With the record of each civil case, and of each criminal case
in which process fees are levied, should be kept a separate sheet of paper to be termed the
“Diary of process of fee’ which should be devoted to the sole purpose of maintaining a record of
process fees. This diary should be in the prescribed form, and should forma portion of part B. In
it enters should be made in chronological order of every process order to be issued in the case,
and the stamps should be affixed opposite each entry and cancelled immediately upon being
affixed.

11. Process fee in case of substituted service.—In case of substituted service under
Order 5, Rule 20, Civil Procedure Code one process fee shall be charged to cover all the acts
done under the rule. In case of drum beating or publications in a Newspaper the charges for the
same shall be paid in addition to be process fees.

12. No process fee for several attempts to serve the same process. —Where a process-
server makes several visit before the date of hearing in order to serve the same process, no
additional process fee shall be charged for those extra visits.

13. Fresh fee payable for every fresh process.—Where however a fresh process is
issued a fresh fee shall be paid.

14. Fresh fee payable when a fresh process has to issue for want of correct address.—
A fresh fee will also be charged when service cannot be effected owing to want of correct of
adequate address and a fresh process has to issue.

15. No fee to be charged for serving and executing processes on behalf of prosecution
in certain criminal proceedings.-- Attention is drawn to the Court-Fees (Punjab Amendment)
Act, 1939, Punjab Act IV of 1939, which lays down that no fees shall be charged for serving
and executing processes on behalf of the prosecution in any criminal proceedings taken on
information presented or complaint made by a public officer acting in his official capacity.

The Provincial Government may by notification determine what persons shall be
deemed to be public officers for this purpose.

Note: The Government has declared all police officers to be public officers for this
purpose.

PART B — RULES UNDER SECTION 20, CLAUSES (i) AND (ii)

Rules made by the High Court under the power conferred by Section 20, clauses (i)
and (ii) of the Court-Fees Act, 1870, confirmed by the Provincial Government regarding the fees
chargeable for serving and executing processes issued by the High Court in its appellate
Jurisdiction and by the Civil and Criminal Courts established within the local limits of such
Jurisdiction.

RULES

1. Grades of Courts for purposes of process fees.—The Civil Courts of the Punjab,

shall, for the purpose of leaving process-fees, be divided into three grades as shown in annexed


--- Page 579 ---
50 High Court Rules and Orders — Vol. IV
————
table:

The High Court

Courts subordinate to the District Court

Note:- For the purposes of this rule a Tribunal established under Section 12 of Punjab
Act, VIII of 1925 (The Sikh Gurdwaras Act, 1925) shall be’ deemed to be a Civil Court of the
second grade.

2. The Court of a Sub-Judge, invested with appellate powers, is deemed to be a District
Court for the purposes of all appeals preferred and is therefore a Court of the second grade.

2. Fees for each grade of Court.—Fees for the service of processes shall be levied
in each grade of Court according to the following scale, namely:-—-

Name of process Courts of Courts of Courts of third grade

first grade | second grade
Summons, notice or  other| 2.00 1.00 0.80
process, not being a warrant of

3. Separate process to issue for each person to be served and a separate fee to be
charged.—A separate process shall be issued for each person summoned or arrested, or upon
whom a notice served; and subject to be rule next following, a separate fee shall be charged for
each process.

In a case in which it is desired to attach the property of more than one person
(judgment-debtors or their sureties), the same village, a combined warrant of attachment shall be
issued and only one attachment fee shall be charged, but if the property lies in more than one
village a separate fee shall be charged for each village.

4. Process fee when a process has to be served on 4 or more persons.— When any
process, other than a warrant of arrest or of attachment, is to be served upon four or more
persons being parties, one fee only shall, according to the sale in rule 2, be charged in respect of
first four processes, and an additional fee, according to the subjoined scale, shall be charged for
cach process to be served in process of four, provided that the aggregate amount of the fee
leviable under this rule shall not exceed the maximum prescribed for each grade of Court: ---

Courts of | Courts of Courts of third grade

first grade | second grade
Rate of additional fee
15.00 10.00

Note: This rule is not applicable to processes issued for service on witnesses.

5. No fee chargeable for criminal processes in cognizable cases.—No fee shall be
chargeable for any process of a Criminal Court issued through the police in cognizable cases. In
non-cognizable cases a fee of eight annas shall be levied for every such process, whether such
process be served through the process-serving establishment or the police.

6. Processes issued by and sent to Courts in British territory to be served free of
charge.—A process issued by any Court in British territory whether of Civil, or Criminal
jurisdiction, shall be served free of charge by any Court in the Punjab if it be certified on the
process that the proper fee has been levied under the rules in force in the territory in which the


--- Page 580 ---
High Court Rules and Orders — Vol. IV 51
————
Court issuing the process is situated. When any Court in the Punjab, whether of Civil or
Criminal jurisdiction, transmits a process for service or execution to any Court beyond its
jurisdiction, a certificate shall be endored on process that the free chargeable under rule 2 or
rule 4, as the case may be, has been levied.

71. Travelling allowance of process-servers.—Ordinarily process-servers should travel
on foot when proceeding to serve or execute process; but in special cases, the Judge of the Court
issuing the process, may permit the journey to be made by railway. In such cases the permission
should be in writing and the railway fare should be charged to the budget heads. Travelling
allowance of process-servers under process-serving establishment is not charged to the person at
whose instance the process is issued.


--- Page 581 ---
52 High Court Rules and Orders — Vol. IV
————
CHAPTER 6
PROCESS-SERVING ESTABLISHMENT
A —- REMARKS AND DIRECTIONS

1. General.—The rules in Parts B and C have been made by the High Court with the
sanction of Government and are republished for the guidance of Civil Courts on supersession of
all previous rules on the subject.

2. Chapter 18-A deals with appointments.—Process-serving establishment are
appointed and dealt with in accordance with the rules given in Chapter 18-A, Volume-1.

3. Controlling Authority.—The Senior Sub-Judge or the Administrative Sub-Judge in
districts where there is an Administrative Sub-Judge, has control over and is responsible for the
efficiency of the process-serving establishment of the district except that of the District Judge
and Judge Small Cause Court.

4. Duties of Civil Nazir.—The Civil Nazir is to be regarded as the ministerial head of
the process-serving establishment under the control of the Senior Subordinate Judge (or the
Administrative Sub-Judge in districts where an Administrative Sub-Judge has been appointed).
His main duty is to maintain the efficiency of the process-serving establishment and for this
purpose he will submit reports and make suggestions from time to time to the Senior Sub-Judge
or the Administrative Sub-Judge as the case may be.

5. Registration of process-servers.—Every appointment of a process-server shall be
registered in the Court of the Senior Subordinate Judge or the Administrative Sub-Judge, of the
District in which the appointment is made, together with the following particulars:-- The name
of the process-server, his age, his place of abode, his father’s name, and the date of
appointment. The names of the process-servers should be entered according to the date of their
appointment in a register containing the above particulars, and a column of remarks should be
added for the entry of such notice respecting the conduct of each process-server as the Presiding
Judge may from time to time deem it necessary to record.

6. Courts by whom the register is to be kept.—There shall be one such register for the
Court of the District Judge, one for the Senior Subordinate Judges Court and other Subordinate
Courts, and one for each Court of Small Causes.

71. Only registered process-servers to be employed.—Except in cases of necessity,
when the special leave of the Court must be obtained, no person other than a registered process-
server shall be employed in the service or execution of any Civil or Criminal process: the reason
for granting such leave should be recorded.

8. Belts and badges of baillifs and process-servers.—Every registered bailiff and
process-server shall be supplied with the following equipment, the cost of which will be met
from the contingencies of the Court to which he is attached:

Bailiffs:

(a) Brown leather waist belt with cross strap over left shoulder. Brass buckle combined

with badge prescribed by High Court to be fixed on waist belt.
Maximum cost Rs. 8 with buckle and badge or Rs. 3.40 without buckle
and badge.

(b) Khaki drill haversack:

Maximum cost Rs. 2.80

Process-servers:


--- Page 582 ---
High Court Rules and Orders — Vol. IV 53
————
(a) Brown leather waist belt brass buckle combined with badge prescribed by High Court
to be fixed to belt.
Maximum cost Rs. 6.60 with buckle and badge or Rs. 1.10 without buckle
and badge.
(b) Khaki drill haversack:
Maximum cost Rs. 2.80

Belts should last four years, and badges and buckles for an indefinite period.
Haversacks should last two years. No article will be replaced unless the presiding officer of the
Court to which a bailiff or process-server is attached certifies that it requires replacement. All
equipment will remain Government property and should be inspected by Presiding Officers of
Courts from time to time. Losses will be made good by the process-server or bailiff responsible.

9. Duties of Civil Nazir.—The Civil Nazir will be expected to keep up the Civil Deposit
and Repayment Accounts and to manage the execution of decree business. It is left to Senior
Subordinate Judges to issue detailed instructions as to the duties which are to be performed by
the Civil Nazir. The Civil Nazir should devote his time to the distribution of business amongst
process-servers, the transmission of processes to agencies located at tehsils of service, the
management of the accounts and correspondence regarding the payment of diet money to
witnesses, and other similar matters connected with the carrying out of the system of serving
processes through agencies located at outlying tehsils.

10. Scale of process-servers and their distribution among different Courts.—The
maximum scale of process-server having establishments allowed to each district has been fixed,
but the Senior Subordinate Judge or the Administrative Sub-Judge as the case may be has power
to distribute the process-servers sanctioned for the Courts of Sub-Judges in such manner as he
thinks fit, with reference to the amount of business coming before the different Courts and the
distances to be traversed in serving processes; it must be understood, however, that the full
number of process should not be entertained unless they are actually required, Civil Register
No. XXIII is intended to show how the work is distributed amongst the different process-
servers, and controlling authorities should frequent inspect this register for the purpose of
satisfying themselves that no unnecessary process-servers are entertained. Every marked
diminution in work or income should be followed by a reduction of establishment.

11. Contingent expenditure.—The total amount of contingencies expended on process-
serving establishment should not exceed ten per cent of the cost of such establishment for the
year.

12. Special messenger and special bailiff. —No sanction of the higher authorities is
necessary if one of the registered process-servers attached to a Court can be spared for
employment as a special messenger in the circumstances mentioned in Chapter 6-B. If, however,
all process-servers in the district are attached to the Senior Subordinate Judge, the matter should
be referred to him for necessary action. Special fee will be course be levied in either case.

The appointment of a special messenger need not necessarily cause the creation of a
new temporary post. If, however, a temporary post is required, a reference should be made to
High Court under paragraph 20.5 of the Book of Financial Powers. The District and Sessions
Judge can create posts of bailiffs required for execution of work of the Co-operative Societies
only, and not for others.

A special bailiff may be appointed for the execution of a warrant of arrest if service
cannot be effected in the ordinary course. The period of such appointment can be determined by
the Court concerned in the circumstances of each case but no special fee should be levied.

PART B — RULES UNDER SECTION 20, CLAUSE (iii)


--- Page 583 ---
54 High Court Rules and Orders — Vol. IV
———
Rules made by the High Court under the power conferred by Section 20, clause (iii), of the
Court-Fees Act, 1870, confirmed by the Provincial Government regarding the remuneration of
the process-servers and all other persons employed by leave of a Court in the service or
execution of processes.

RULES

1. Scale of salary of process-serving establishment.—The salaries of the process-
serving establishment, as such, shall not, except with special sanction of the High Court, exceed
the scale shown below against each officer:---

Rs.
Civil Nazir { 50-1-70
40-1-60
Naib-Nazirs { 30-1-50
25-1-45
Maded Naib-Nazirs 25
Execution Bailiff 22
Process-server 17
Provided that existing establishment and existing salaries shall in all cases remain
uncharged until the sanction of the High Court has been given to any alteration.
Note 1.—Civil Nazirs, Naib-Nazirs and Madad Naib-Nazirs serving in Lahore,
Layalpur, Sargodha, Rawalpindi and Amritsar will draw the compensatory allowance of Rs.3/~
and bailiffs and process-servers serving in these stations will draw a similar allowance of Rs.2/-
and Re. 1/- respectively.
Note 2.—FEuropean bailiffs are now paid a monthly salary of Rs. 30 and Rs. 3 for
each process server.

2. Pay of additional process-servers.—Whenever it is necessary to employ additional
persons as process-servers, that is to say, persons other than the registered process-serves, the
pay of a person to employed shall be at the rate of seventeen rupees per month.

3. Remuneration of special messenger.—Should it appear to the Court, on the motion
of a party to a suit or proceedings, or otherwise, that, for the convenience of the parties or for
some other reason, it is expedient that any process should be executed by special messenger,
such process shall be so executed. Except in the case of a warrant for arrest, a special fee will
be payable for such emergent service; and the Court will, at the time of making its order,
declare by whom the fee shall be paid and whether it shall be included in the costs of the suit or
be charged to a particular party.

PART C - RULES UNDER SECTION 22
Rules made by the High Court with the approval of the Provincial Government, under
the power conferred by Section 22 of the Court-Fees Act, 1870, regarding the number of persons
necessary to be employed for the service and execution of processes issued out of the Civil and
Criminal Courts established within the local limits of their jurisdiction, respectively.
RULES

1. High Court, to fix number of process-servers for each district. —The High Court
shall fix, and shall from time to time, as may be necessary, after the maximum number of
process-servers to be retained for the Court of "each District and Sessions Judge, and for each
district in the Province.

2. Distribution of process-servers among senior Courts.—The number of process-


--- Page 584 ---
High Court Rules and Orders — Vol. IV 55
————
servers to be retained in each district shall be allotted by the Senior Subordinate Judge, subject
to the control of the District Judge and High Courts, to the various Courts of the District in to
such manner as shall be most convenient for the service of processes.

3. How to fix the number of process-servers for each district.—In submitting
proposals with regard to the maximum number of process-servers to be retained in any district,
and in distributing the process-servers retained amongst the various Courts, the Senior
Subordinate Judge or the Administrative Sub-Judge should ascertain, and report, when
necessary, the number of processes issued from his own Court and from every other Civil and
Criminal Court in the district during each month of the previous year; and the maximum number
of process-servers fixed for each Court shall be so many as are sufficient for the service of the
largest number of processes ascertained to have been issued in any one month. In calculating the
number of process-servers capable of serving such ascertained number of processes, regard shall
be paid to:--

(a) the average distance travelled by the peon;

(b) the nature of the country to be traversed and the local circumstances;

(c) the number of process-servers by whom the processes were actually served.’

4. Process-servers not to be employed for any other work.—The process-servers
entertained under these rules shall be employed exclusively in the work of serving and executing
processes.

In fixing the number of process-servers regard must be had to the system of serving processes though agencies located in
tehsil.


--- Page 585 ---
56 High Court Rules and Orders — Vol. IV
————
CHAPTER 7
PROCESSES — CIVIL COURTS
PART A — GENERAL

1. General provisions regarding service of summons.—The provisions regarding the
service of summons of the parties, contained in Sections 27, 28 and 143, Order V, Rules 9 to
30, Order XXVII, Rule 4, Order XXIX, Rule 2, Order XLVIII, Rules 1, 2 and 3, Order III,
Rules 3, 5 and 6, Order XXVIII, Rule 3, Order XXX, Rule 3, and Order XLI, Rule 14 of the
Civil Procedure Code as amended by the High Court should be strictly observed, as neglect of
them may often render the service ineffectual, especially when personal service cannot be made.

2. Rules regarding service in particular cases.—Attention is drawn to the following
rules regarding service in particular cases:--

Re service on agents Order III, Rules 3 and 6 and Order V,
Rules 12, 13 and 14

Re service on pleaders Order III, Rule 5.

Re service on Corporations Order XXIX, Rule 2

Re service on Firms Order XXX, Rule 3.

Re service in suits against the State Order XXVII, Rule 4 and Chapter 10 of
Volume 1.

Re service in suits against Military or Order XXVIII, Rule 3, Order V, Rules

Naval men or Airmen. 28 and 29 and Chapter 7-D of this
volume.

Re service by post Order V, Rule 10, as amended by the
High Court and Rules 21, 24 and 25

Re service re appeals Chapter 14-B, Volume I.

Re service re execution Chapter 12-E, paragraph 9, Volume I.

3. Service in cantonments.—Summonses for service on persons residing within the
limits of cantonments should not be sent to Executive Officers of cantonments.

4. Service on witnesses.—The general procedure for serving processes on witnesses is
the same as in the case of defendants.-- (See Order XVI, Rule 8, and also Volume I, Chapter 5
“Witnesses — Civil Courts.”)

5. Service of orders and notices.—All orders and notices issued under the Code are to
be served in the manner provided for the service of summons. (Order XLVIII, Rule 2).

6. Service of processes during trial, appeal and execution.—In connection with the
service of processes during the trial, attention is invited to Rules 19 to 25 of Order VII, Rules 11
and 12 of Order VIII and Order XLI (appeals), Rule 38, of the Code framed by the High Court
under Section 122 of the Code of Civil Procedure. Under the new rules parties are required to
file addresses for the purposes of serving notices on them during the trial. If the party concerned
is not found at the address given, the procedure laid down in Order VII, Rule 22, should be
followed, and if the party fails to appear on the date fixed notice should be sent to the address by
registered post. Such service is then taken to be as effectual as personal service.

The new rules are intended to facilitate service of processes on parties throughout the
trial including appeals and executions and should be carefully studied.


--- Page 586 ---
High Court Rules and Orders — Vol. IV 57

————

71. Forms of processors.—Forms of processes will be found in Appendix B to Schedule

I of the Code of Civil Procedure. In the case of persons of distinction a letter may be substituted
for a summons if the Court thinks fit (Order V, Rule 30).

8. Form for return of processes.—The forms prescribed for the return of processes by
process-servers (as amended by the High Court) should be followed as early as the
circumstances of the case permit. These forms are reproduced in Appendix I of this Chapter.

9. Scale of process-fees.—For the scale of process-fees see Chapter 5 of this Volume.
For instructions as to the levy of fresh process-fees in certain cases and fees for substituted
service see Part A of Chapter 5 of this Volume.

10. Processes sent by post.—When processes are transmitted by post, they should be sent
under service covers, and should ordinarily be registered. (Section 143, Civil Procedure Code).

11. Employment of process-servers for execution of warrants attachment, arrest and
sale.—Ordinarily bailiffs are to be employed for the execution of warrants of attachment, arrest
and delivery of possession, etc., but process-servers may be employed for this purpose with the
permission of the officer-in-charge of the Nazarrat where the value of property involved is not
high. Re: execution of warrants of sale by process-servers see Rule 20(v) Chapter 12-L,
Volume I.

PART B - SERVICE OF PROCESS
(a) Mode of Service

1. Service by affixation not to be made before the date fixed for scrutiny of
service.—Every attempt should be made to effect personal service in the first issuance and
failing that service on an agent or a member of the family. The process-server should go again
and again for this purpose if there is time before the date fixed for scrutiny of service. In other
words service in any of the ways enumerated in Order 5, Rules 12 to 16 of the Code of Civil
Procedure, should be insisted upon and service by affixation as provided in Order V, Rule 17,
Civil Procedure Code, should not be allowed till after the day fixed for scrutiny.

2. Substituted service.—Order V, Rule 20(1), of the Code of Civil Procedure, provides
that when the Court is satisfied that the defendant is keeping out of the way for the purposes of
avoiding service, or that, for any other sufficient reason that summons cannot be served in the
ordinary way, service may be effected by affixing a copy of the summons in some conspicuous
place in the Court house, and also in some conspicuous place of the house, if any, in which the
defendant is known to have last resided, or carried on business, or personally worked for gain,
or in such other manner as the Court thinks fit.

3. Plaintiff’s duty before obtaining orders substituted service.—It should be noted, in
this connection, that it is the plaintiff's duty to use his best endeavours to discover the
defendant’s residence and to satisfy the Court that he has done so and that the defendant is
evading service or for any other sufficient reason cannot be served in the ordinary way. It is
only after all the other prescribed methods of effecting service have been tried and have failed
that it is open to the Courts to exercise the discretionary power conferred by the concluding
words of Order V, Rule 10(1), of the Code.

4. Publication in.—The discretionary power alluded to above is frequently exercised by
Courts by publication in one or more newspapers of a notice calling upon by defendant to
appear. But in many cases this method is quite unsuitable. When, for example, the defendant is
illiterate or belongs to a class which cannot be expected to read newspapers such notice is
obviously useless. In the case of Europeans or educated Pakistanis likely to read newspapers it
may be proper to resort to this method, but even in such cases, the practice should only be
adopted as a last resort.


--- Page 587 ---
58 High Court Rules and Orders — Vol. IV
————

5. Publication allowed in approved papers only.—Whenever notice is to be published
in a newspaper it should be published in newspapers approved by the High Court. A list of
approved newspapers is circulated to subordinate Courts periodically.

6. Selection of paper to be made by the Presiding Officer.-- The object of effecting
substituted service by advertisement in a newspaper is to inform the defendant that proceedings
are pending against him and that he should appear in Court. This object can only be achieved by
publication in a newspaper of wide circulation, which is likely to be read by the defendant or the
class to which he belongs. The selection of newspapers in which it is proposed to advertise
should, therefore, be made by the Presiding Officer himself and not by a Clerk of his office.

71. Preference to vernacular papers printed in the district of the person to be
notified. —Care should also be taken that such notices are published as far as possible in
vernacular papers, vernacular being the language of the subordinate Courts. They should only be
published in papers printed in English if there is good reason to suppose that the person
concerned read English papers and are more likely to be reached in that way. Preference should
be given to such papers as are printed in the District where the person notified resides; or if no
newspaper is printed in that District, to those printed in the District nearest to it, provided such
papers have a good circulation and are likely to be read by the defendant or the class to which he
belongs.

8. Publication to be arranged through Public Information Bureau.—In sending a
judicial notice for publication in a newspaper, the Court should, in the covering letter, require
the manager of the newspaper to send, under postal certificate, the copy of the paper containing
the notice to the party for whose perusal it is intended at the address given in the notice,
‘marking the notice in question with red ink; he should also be required, as proof of compliance
with this order, to attach the postal certificate to his bill when submitting the letter to the Court
of payment.

9. Covering letter to be forwarded to the Director, Information Bureau and action
to be taken by him.—This covering letter should be addressed to the Director, Information
Bureau, Punjab, and not to the Manager of the selected newspaper. The Director Information
Bureau, will arrange for the publication of the Court notice in the newspaper indicated. He will
receive the bills or bills for this publication, and after satisfying himself about their correctness
will countersign them. He will then forward the bills to the Courts concerned for payment direct
to the Managers of the newspapers concerned.

10. Advertisements in papers not on the approved list. —f it is proposed for any
special reasons to advertise to any newspaper, not on the approved list whether published in the
Punjab or elsewhere, a reference should first be made to the High Court to ascertain whether
there is any objection to the course proposed.

(b) Personal attention to service

1. General.—t has been found by experience that delays in the disposal of civil suits are
very often due to the failure of Presiding Officers to pay personal attention to matters connected
with the issue and service of processes. The following instructions, must therefore, by strictly
observed in future:--

2. The Judge should watch process of service before date of hearing.—Between the
date of the issue of process and the date of hearing, Presiding Officers of Court must personally
satisfy themselves that service is being effectually carried out and not content themselves with
looking into the matter only on the date of hearing.

3. Court to fix dates for furnishing talbana, etc., and date for return of process.—In
order to achieve this object the following procedure shall ordinarily be observed in respect of
service of all processes for attendance of parties or their witnesses:


--- Page 588 ---
High Court Rules and Orders — Vol. IV 59

————

(@) A very near date shall be fixed for payment of process-fees and for the giving of

adequate details of the persons to be served. On this date, the Judge shall satisfy

himself that the fees, diet money, etc., have been paid and that the name, address and

other particulars of the person to be summoned are reasonably sufficient to secure

service. If these conditions have been satisfied, process shall then issue and two dates

shall be fixed, the first for the return of the process with a report of the process-

serving agency, and the order for the hearing of the case. The interval between the

dates of issue and return on the one hand and between the dates of return and hearing

on the other, shall in each case leave adequate time for the service of the process. It is

not to be left to the discretion of the process-server to decide whether he shall effect
personal or substituted service.

(b) The date of the return should be clearly written on the summons and the Nazir should
be warned to return the process before the said date.

(c) Reader’s note about service.-- A printed slip showing the following particulars
should be filled in by the Reader of the Court and pasted below each order for issuing
a process against a party or a witness: ---

(1) The date when Talbana and address were put in.

(2) The date on which the summonses were delivered by the Ahlmad to the Nazir.

(3) The date on which the Nazir delivered the process to the process-server or sent

it to any other agent.

(4) The date of return by the process-server, or agent.

(5) The date of return by the Nazir.

(6) The name of the official who is to blame for non-service.

Note: If the interval between the dates of return and hearing is sufficient, a second
date for return may be fixed.

(d) Parties’ and Judge’s duty as to scrutiny of service on date of return.—Parties
could be invited and encouraged to attend in person or by pleader on the date fixed
for return of the summons. Whether they do so attend or not, the Presiding Officer
should scrutinize the record and pass any order which may be required, such as an
order for the issue of a fresh process. Parties should be encouraged throughout to take
dasti summons to accompany the process-servers and to render all assistance in their
power.

(e) Judge to take into consideration party’s conduct in deciding about
adjournment.—In deciding whether to give a further adjournment when a process is
not served, the Presiding Officer will be justified in taking into consideration whether
the party asking for an adjournment had complied with the orders of the Court in
paying process-fees, diet money, etc., and in giving correctly and promptly the names
and addresses of the persons to be served.

4. Process-server’s affidavit re service of process.-- A form of affidavit of the process-
server which should accompany the return of the summons has been prescribed by the High
Court. See form 11 of Appendix B. Before passing an ex parte order the Court should make it a
point to see that this affidavit duly filed in, is with the report of the process-server.

(c) Proof of Service

1. Court shall not proceed ex parte if summons has not been duly served.—No Court
can rightly proceed to hear a suit ex parte until it has been proved to the satisfaction of such
Court that the summons to a defendant to appear has been duly served, that is, has been served


--- Page 589 ---
60 High Court Rules and Orders — Vol. IV
————
strictly in such manner as the law provides.

2. Process-server’s report to be proved by affidavit or examination in Court.—
Whenever it is necessary, in ex parte proceedings, under Order IX, Rule 6, of the Code of Civil
Procedure, to have the report of service of summons proved by the affidavit or statement in
Court of the process-server he should be ordered by the Court to appear before the proper
officer or Court.

3. Nature of proof of services in different cases.—The nature of the proof of service
which the Court ought to require in each case, according as it falls under one or other of the
various relevant provisions of the Code of Civil Procedure relating to service of summons, may
be shortly stated as follows:---

(i) Personal service. —When the summons or notice is served on the defendant or
respondent personally, the service and the signature of the defendant or respondent on
the back of the process should be proved.

(ii) Service on agent.—If the service be made under Order V, Rule 12, on an agent, it
should be proved that this person was empowered to accept service, under Order III,
Rule 2, 5 or 6, or Order V, Rule 13, of the Code, as the case may be. The party
causing the service to be effected must give proof to this effect. It is a matter of
which, ordinarily speaking, the serving officer would have no knowledge.

(iii) Service on in charge property.—If the service be made under Order V, Rule 14, it
should be proved in like manner that the summons or notice could not be served on
the defendant or respondent in person, and that he had no agent empowered to accept
the service and that the person to whom the process was delivered was an agent of the
defendant or respondent in charge of the land or other immovable property forming
the subject-matter of the suit.

(iv) Service on adult male member of the family.—f the service be made under Order
V, Rule 15, it should be proved that the defendant could not be found or was absent
from his residence and had no agent empowered to accept the service, and that the
person to whom the process was delivered was an adult male member of his family,
and was actually residing with him at the time of such service. It is to be noted that a
servant is not a member of the family within the meaning of this rule.

(v) Service by affixation under Order 5, Rule 17.—f the service be made under Order
V, Rule 17, it should, in like manner, be proved, according to the circumstances of
the case, either that the person to whom the summons or notice was tendered refused
to sign the acknowledgement, though he was informed of the nature and contents of
the document, or that the defendant could not be found or was absent from his
residence, and that there was no agent empowered to accept service, nor any other
person on whom the service could be made; and, in either case, that the house, on the
outer door of which a copy of the process was affixed, was the ordinary residence or
place of business of the defendant at the time when it was so affixed. It is the duty of
the Court in such cases to satisfy itself after taking the process-server’s affidavit or
statement on solemn affirmation and after such further inquiry as may be necessary,
that reasonable efforts were made without success to serve the defendant personally
and then declare whether the summons was ‘duly served’. Without such a declaration
under Order v, Rule 19, the summons cannot be held to be duly served.

(vi) Substituted service under Order 5, Rule 20.—If the service be made under Order
V, rule 20, it should, in like manner, be proved that the house upon the door of which
a copy of the process was affixed, was the house in which the defendant last resided
or carried or business or personally worked for gain, and that the service was made in
all respects in conformity with the order for substituted service which should


--- Page 590 ---
High Court Rules and Orders — Vol. IV 61
————
accompany the process.

(vii) Service at address given by parties.—If service has been effected under Order 8,
Rule 12, read with Order 7, Rule 22 (a framed by the High Court), it should be
proved that the defendant was not found at the address given by him for service, that
there was no agent or adult male member of his family on whom service could be
made, that a copy of the summons or notice was affixed on the outer door of his
house, and that on his failure to appear on the fixed date, summons or notice was sent
to the registered address by registered post for the next date.

(viii) Service on firms.—If the service be made under Order XXX, Rule 3, it should be
proved that the summons or notice was served upon any one or more of the partners
of the firm concerned, or at the principal place at which the partnership business is
carried on within Pakistan, on any person having, at the time of service, the control
or management of the partnership business there. In the case of a partnership which
has been dissolved, the summons shall be served on every person within Pakistan,
whom it is sought to make liable.

4. Proof of service is imporative.—The Court should in all cases obtain the proof
which is above described as requisite by the verified statement, recorded in writing, of the
person by whom the service was effected, or, if deemed necessary, by the examination in Court,
as witnesses, of such persons as the Court may think fit to examine.

PART C — ISSUE OF SUMMONS OR OTHER PROCESS FOR SERVICE ON A
PERSON EMPLOYED IN THE PUBLIC SERVICE

1. Service of summons on public officers or servants of local or railway company. —
In regard to the service of summons upon the party or witness who is a public officer (not
belonging to his Majesty’s Military, Naval or Air Service) or is the servant of a railway
company or local authority it is open to the Court as provided under Order V, Rule 27 of the
Code of Civil Procedure to serve the summons through the head of the office in which the said
party or witness is employed if this course is considered more convenient. Ordinarily the
summons should be served on the defendant or witness in the ordinary way and a copy sent to
the head* of the office or department at least 15 days (10 days in the case of local officers)
before the date fixed for the hearing.

The method of effecting service through the head of the office will probably be found
the most convenient in the case of defendants or witnesses employed in large administrative
offices, such as are situated in Lahore. In all cases where the summons is ordered to be served
through the head of the office, an endorsement should be attached to, or written in the body of
the summons, conspicuously in red ink, quoting the exact words of sub-rules (1) and (2) of Rule
29, Order V, Civil Procedure Code, which (in the case of witnesses read with Order XVI, Rule
8. Civil Procedure Code) imposes a duty on the head of the office to serve the summons on the
subordinate to whom it relates if possible and to return it under his signature, with the written
acknowledgement of the defendant or witness; or if service is not possible, to return the
summons to the Court with a full statement of the reasons for non-service.

Note: The case of Patwaris forms an exception to the above rule, and is governed by
the rules in Chapter 5-B of Volume 1, It should be noted that in such cases the summons should
be forwarded to the Tehsildar for service, and should not be served direct or through the Deputy
Commissioner.

2. Service of summons in suits against railway companies.—n the case of suits
against railway companies, in addition to service in the usual way, a copy of the summons
should be sent by post under Order XXIX, Rule 2(b): provided that if the summons is sent by
registered post, service in the usual way may be dispensed with.


--- Page 591 ---
62 High Court Rules and Orders — Vol. IV
————

3. Sufficient time to be allowed for the official superior to arrange for relief of the
person summoned.—A reasonable time should be allowed for the attendance of the person
summoned, in order that his official superior may be able to make suitable arrangements for the
conduct of his duties during his absence.

Note: In the case of employees of the North-Western Railway, a copy of the summons
should be addressed to the Divisional Superintendent or other superior officer concerned
according to the list given in the appendix to Chapter 8.

4. Vernacular robkars may be sent to summon revenue officials but not to offices
where business is transacted in English.—If a non-English speaking Judge has occasion to
summon a Kanungo or any other official subordinate to Deputy Commissioner to give evidence,
he should send a robkar intimating that fact to the Deputy Commissioner to whom such officer is
subordinate. Robkars should not be addressed to the heads of public offices and departments in
which business is transacted in English. A covering letter or docket in English should be used.
PART D — ISSUE OF SUMMONS OR OTHER PROCESS FOR SERVICE ON PERSONS

IN THE ARMY, NAVY OR AIR FORCE

1. Service of processes on employees in the Army, Navy and Air Forces.—(1) Order
V, Rules 28 and 29, of the Code of Civil Procedure, provide for the service of processes on
soldiers, sailors or airman other than commissioned officers. Such processes should invariably
be transmitted for service to the proper military authority.

Sufficient time to be allowed in fixing dates.—(2) There is no special provision in
the Code for the service of processes on officers as distinct from soldiers; and such processes
should ordinarily be served personally by the European Bailiff of the Court. If there is no
European Bailiff attached to the Court, it will be convenient to send the process to the
commanding officer or the officer concerned for service in the manner indicated in Order V,
Rules 28 and 29.

2. Fresh date should be given if time allowed proves insufficient. —In fixing dates for
the attendance of persons in the Army, Navy or Air Force, the Courts should be careful to allow
sufficient time. It should be remembered that in fixing a date for the appearance of the defendant
in such cases, the time necessary for the transmission of the summons, through the usual
channels, for service on the defendant must be taken into consideration, as well as the time
which the defendant may, after service, reasonably require to make arrangements for obtaining
leave and appearing in person or for appointing and giving instructions to an agent to represent
him in the case.

3. On the day fixed for hearing, it if appear that from any cause the summons was not
served in sufficient time to enable the defendant to make the necessary arrangements for
appearing in person, or by agent, a fresh date must be fixed and notice given to the defendant;
but this will seldom be necessary if Courts are careful in the first instance to allow sufficient
time, as required by Order V, Rule 6, of the Code of Civil Procedure, and explained in the
above remarks.

4. Service on agent or pleader.—It may be noted that when an officer, soldier, sailor or
airman has authorized any person under Order XXVIII, Rule 1, to sue or defend in his stead
processes may be served on such agents or upon any pleader appointed by such agent. (Order
XXVIII, Rule 3).

PART E—ISSUE OF SUMMONS OR OTHER PROCESS FOR SERVICE ON A PERSON
RESIDING WITHIN THE JURISDICTION OF ANOTHER COURT IN THE SAME OR
ANOTHER PROVINCE WHO HAS NO AGENT TO ACCEPT SERVICE WITHIN THE
JURISDICTION OF COURT ISSUING THE PROCESS SERVICE OR PROCESS
ISSUING TO OR FROM OTHER PROVINCES


--- Page 592 ---
High Court Rules and Orders — Vol. IV 63
————
General

1. Different modes of service.—When the person to be served resides within the
jurisdiction of another Court the Judge must decided how service is to be effected, and pass
orders accordingly.

If the process has to be served within the jurisdiction of another Court but within the
same district, the agencies located at tehsils will be employed, the process being transmitted by
post from one agency to another. If the process has to be served in another district, but within
the Province; it should be transmitted by post of the Senior Sub-Judge for service and return.
But no Court should refuse to serve any process received for service within its jurisdiction from
a Court in another district or Province, merely by reason of the process not having been sent
through the Senior Subordinate Judge. Processes issued to districts in other Provinces, should be
forwarded for execution to the District Judge of the district in which service of such process is
desired, except where they are to be served within one of the Presidency towns (Order V, Rule
22, Civil Procedure Code), when they should be transmitted for service to the Judge of the
Court of Small Causes.

The Government of Bengal have decided that in the case of all warrants or other
processes which are required to be executed or served by the Court of Small Causes, Calcutta,
on or after the Ist June, 1942, conveyance charges at the rate of Re. 1.80 per warrant and 25
Paisa per copy of summons or other process shall be realized and paid in Court-fee stamps in
advance and that before warrants or other processes are transmitted to that Court for execution
or service, a certificate of realization of the charges should be endorsed on the warrants or other
processes, as the case may be, for the information of the Court of Small Causes, Calcutta, in the
absence of which certificate it will not be possible for that Court to execute or serve warrants or
processes. —(General letter No. 4 (Civil) of 1942, from the Registrar of the High Court of
Judicature at Fort William in Bengal, Appellate Side, copy endorsed to all District and Sessions
Judges in the Punjab and Delhi with Lahore High Court endorsement No. 7391-R/XIX F-2,
dated the 4th August, 1942).

2. Full description to be given of person summoned.—In issuing processes for service
in other Provinces the presiding officer of the Court issuing the process should personally satisfy
himself that such full particulars of the description of the person summoned are entered in the
process as will render it unlikely that the serving officer should mistake the identity of the
person summoned. In the cases of Europeans and Anglo-Pakistani, the Christian name or names
in full, if possible, and certainly the initials, the profession or trade, and the full address of the
person summoned, should be accurately set forth. In the case of Pakistanis, the name, father’s
name, caste, occupation and address should be recorded in the summons, together with any
further particulars which, in the opinion of the Court, will facilitate service of the process. The
issue of the process should be delayed until such particulars are satisfactorily furnished by the
person applying therefor. The same care should be taken in regard to all processes which are to
be served outside the jurisdiction of the Court issuing the person.

3. Processes should bear the seal and signature of the Court and show the name of
the Court and District. —All processes should set forth distinctly both the Courts from which
the process issues and the name of the district. They should bear the seal of the Court and
should be signed legibly.

4. Cases wherein processes should be accompanied by translation in English. —All
processes sent for service to any district, the vernacular of which differs from that in which the
process is written, should be in duplicate and accompanied by a translation in English.

5. Note on the process that proper fee has been levied.—In every case in which
application is made for the issue of a process to a place in British territory, but beyond the limits
of the jurisdiction of the Court, the stamp requisite for the issue of such process, under the rules


--- Page 593 ---
64 High Court Rules and Orders — Vol. IV
————
in force in the Punjab will be levied and affixed to the diary of process fees; and a note will be
made on the process to the effect that the proper fee bas been levied. A process issued by any
Court in the Punjab will be served or executed free of charge in any other part of British
territory, if it be certified on the process that the proper fee has been levied under the rules in
force in the Punjab. (See also Chapter 5).

6. Processes issued to or by any Court in British territory to be served free of
charge.—Processes issued by any Courts in British territory will be served free of charge by the
Punjab Courts under the same conditions as are mentioned in the preceding paragraph, i.e. if it
be certified on the process that the proper fee has been levied under the rules in force in that
Province or territory-. It will be observed that all special charges for service of process issued
by a Court in one part of Sub-continent to be served in any other part have been abolished.

Note:- The procedure laid down in paragraphs 5 and 6 has been extended to certain
Indian States, as explained hereafter.

71. Process sent to British possessions out of India should be sent by post.—
Summonses issued for service on persons residing in Foreign Countries, should be addressed to
the defendant at the place in which he is residing and sent by post in accordance with Order V,
Rule 25, of the Code.

8. Correspondence between judicial officers in the Punjab and Courts of other
Provinces to be conducted in English. —All correspondence between judicial officers in the
Punjab and the Courts of another Province should be conducted in the English language. In the
case of non-English speaking officers, the District Judge should be the channel of
communication.

9. Service of processes received from other districts should be watched by the
presiding officer.—Complaints are frequently received that the processes sent for service to
other districts and not properly attended to. All processes received from other districts should be
shown regular in the register “Tamil Zilla Ghair” and the disposal of the processes should be
watched by the presiding officer on the Court from time to time.

10. Duty of Court receiving summons from another Court for service.—If a summons
is issued under the provision of Order V, Rule 21 of the Code of Civil Procedure, it is the duty
of the Court serving the summons (a) to proceed as if it had been issued by such Court, (B) to
return the summons to the Court of issue together with the record (if any) of its proceedings
with regard thereto and (c) to make the declaration referred to in Order V, Rule 19.

In returning the summons the form 10 of Schedule I, Appendix B of the Civil
Procedure Code, should be used and should be duly signed and sealed.
PART F — SERVICE OF THE PROCESSES OF THE COURTS IN PAKISTAN IN
PLACES BEYOND PAKISTAN

1. Service of summonses by post.—Order V, Rule 25, of the Code of Civil Procedure
provides, generally, that if the defendant resides out of Pakistan, and has no agent in Pakistan
empowered to accept the service, the summons shall be addressed to the defendant at the place
where he is residing, and forwarded to him by post, if there be postal communication between
such place and the place where the Court is situate. In practice, all summonses so sent should,
where possible, by sent by registered post, and should be “registered acknowledgement due”.

The letter containing the summons which should always be sent in an envelope,
should be properly and fully addressed and prepaid. A copy of the address on the letter should
also be kept on the judicial record and care should be taken that the certificate given by the
Postal authorities also contains the full address on the letter.

2. Service of summonses under Order 5, Rule 26, C.P.C.—If it is impossible to effect


--- Page 594 ---
High Court Rules and Orders — Vol. IV 65
————
service in the above manner, advantage may be taken of the provisions of Order 5, Rule 26, in
the following cases:--

(a) Where in a foreign territory a Political Agent has been appointed or a Court has been
established or continued by the Central Government State Representative with power
to serve a summons issued by Court in Pakistan (See Notification of the Central
Government, No. 322-1, dated the 15th May, 1929, given in Appendix to Chapter 12-
S, Volume I).

(6) Where although no such Court has been established or continued yet the Provincial
Government has declared by a notification under Order 5, Rule 26(b) in respect of a
Court in foreign territory that service by such Court of any summons issued by a
Court of Province shall be deemed to be valid service.

A list of the Courts to which these provisions apply will be found in Appendix VI to
this Chapter.

3. Service of summonses under Order 5, Rule 20, C.P.C.—Where the provisions of
Order 5, Rule 26, cannot be availed of and service by post has been tried and failed, action may
be taken under Order 5, Rule 20, Civil Procedure Code.

4. Instructions re service under Order 5, Rule 26, C.P.C.—In cases where service is
desired to be effected under Order 5, Rule 26, the following instructions should be followed: --

(@) The summons should be forwarded in an envelope through the District Judge with a
covering letter to the High Court, for transmission to the Provincial Government duly
certified that service by post has been tried and failed and if what manner it has
failed. The channel of communication within India of summonses for service in
foreign countries, as distinct from Empire countries is the Provincial Government and
the Government of India in the External Affairs Department. As regards documents
for service in the Empire countries the channel of communication continues to be the
Provincial Government and the Government of India in the Home Department. It
should never be sent direct unless a special Procedure is otherwise prescribed except
in cases where the High Court has allowed that summonses may be sent direct, e.g.,
in the case of Indian States. An exception is also made in the case of certain countries
viz., the Federated Malay States, Johore State (an unfederated Malay State), Iraq and
Nepa to which processes may be forwarded direct by the British Indian Courts.

(b) Date of return of summonses.—n no case should a precise date be fixed in the

summons or forwarding letter for the return of the service. It is impossible for a
Court in Pakistan to order a date before which a foreign judicial authority must
execute a request which the foreign judicial authority is under no obligation to execute
at all.
A sufficiently long date however (in any case not less than four months) may be fixed
for the appearance of the parties before the Court in expectation of the return of the
service after making allowance (a) for the time which is bound to be taken by the
various channels through which the documents have to pass, and (b) the time which
should be given to the person on whom service is effected to prepare his case and
attend the Court.

(c) Duplicate copies and’ translation.—The covering letter, both copies of the
summonses and all other documents should be prepared in duplicate and translated in
English and typewritten and must be checked and legibly signed by the presiding
officer of the Court and should bear the seal of the Court. Where it is not possible to
type them in English they should be neatly and legibly written by the presiding officer
in his own hand-writing. All translations should be certified to be correct.


--- Page 595 ---
66 High Court Rules and Orders — Vol. IV
————

(d Names and addresses and translation in foreign language.—The names and
addresses of the persons on whom service of summonses is desired should be neatly
and legibly written and should also be given in the forwarding letter. The name and
address of the Court should be legible, and its seal should also be legible and properly
affixed. Summonses, notices, copies of plaint and other judicial documents should be
accompanied by translation in duplicate in the language of the country in which
service is to be effected, at the expense of the party at whose instance summonses,
etc., are issued. When the party concerned is unable to prepare such translation a
request should be made that translation be arranged by the Foreign Office.

The approximate charges for translations into certain foreign languages are the same
as given in Rule 28 of Chapter 10-E, Volume I.

Similarly request should be made that the executing officer should cause translations
of all the documents sent by him to be made in English and money for this purpose
should be recovered in advance from the party concerned.

Where documents in English are being served by a British Consular Officer it is not
necessary to supply translations in the language of the country when the recipient is of
British nationality, but in other cases translations should be supplied.

(e) Cost of translation and service.—An amount equal to 50 percent more than the
estimated costs of effecting service and translation should be recovered from the party
concerned in advance and deposited. This amount needed not be sent alongwith the
process and heretofore but should be sent when a demand is made to that effect.

[0] Presiding Officer responsible for completion of the documents.—The preparation
of summonses must not be left to clerks. The Presiding Officer of the issuing Court
will primarily be held responsible for its accuracy and completeness in every respect
before transmission to the High Court and it is the duty of the Clerk of Court to
District Judge to examine the summonses and its accompaniments carefully and to see
that all instructions have been complied with.

(2) Index and schedule of documents sent.—The forwarding letter should either at the
foot thereof contain a schedule of all the documents sent alongwith it or be followed
immediately by an index of such documents. The first document should be a concise
narrative of the action of the parties thereto and of the course to be pursued. The
documents should be numbered or lettered so as to correspond with the schedule or
index mentioned above.

(h) Copies to be certified.—All copies should be certified by an official of the Court that
they have been examined and are true copies. Such certified copies should also bear
the seal of the Court.

(@) Service by British Consular Officers.—Pakistan is not a party to any civil procedure

convention and therefore it depends entirely on the local law of the foreign country in
question whether Pakistan Embassy Officers are permitted to serve documents or to
take evidence on behalf of Courts in Pakistan and if so, under what circumstances. In
some countries this is permitted where the recipient of the documents or the intended
witness is a Pakistani subject and not otherwise.
A request should not be made for the service of documents by a Pakistan Consular
Officer in any foreign country unless it has been previously ascertained that the
Consular Officer as able to give effect to it. The names of countries where there is no
difficulty as regards the service of documents by Pakistani Consular Officers and in
which it is unnecessary to apply for permission to the Foreign Office, are given in the
Schedule to this chapter.


--- Page 596 ---
High Court Rules and Orders — Vol. IV 67
————
[7] Stitching of papers sent.—The forwarding letter and all its accompaniments should
be on strong paper and sewn together in a parchment paper cover down the left hand
side, the end of the silk, tape or thread with which they are sewn being brought out
on the front cover and the ends sealed down and the binding signed and sealed by the
Judge so that there is no possibility of the removal, substitution or addition of any
sheet without breaking the seal.

(k) Directions to be given in forwarding letter.—The forwarding letter or the first
annexed document should indicate clearly (a) which is the actual document (or
documents) to be served, and (b) if any special method of service is desired (as
opposed to a case where any method usually employed by the Courts of the foreign
country in question will suffice) the method of service desired: (viz., that one copy of
the documents to be served should be left with the intended recipient; that a certificate
of service by the process-server should be written on the copy of the documents to be
served, that the recipient should be asked to sign a copy of the document served, etc.,
as the case may be).

on Address.—Letters to a Pakistani Consular Officer should refer to Ambassador
at or his Deputy. The letter to a Foreign Court, where the proper
description of the Foreign Judicial Authority in question is not known, should be
addressed to the Competent Judicial Authority in (Name of the country
concerned).

5. Service in Indian States.—With regard to several Indian States special arrangements
have been made to meet the mutual convenience of the Courts of these States and the Courts in
British India; reference is made to those below. Where no such arrangements exist, the costs of
effecting service, where the summons is not sent direct to the defendant by post, must be
remitted with the process to the Political Officer or Court addressed under Order 5, Rule 26, of
the Code. With regard to the Punjab States, in regard to which no special directions are here
given process will be served in the manner prescribed by Order 5, Rule 26, of the Code. In the
absence of any specific rule to the contrary a period of not less than six weeks should, as a rule,
be allowed for service of processes in Indian States.

(i) Balochistan

Processes intended for service on persons resident in Balochistan shall be sent to the
Deputy Commissioner or Political Agent of the District in which such person resides. A list
showing the principal Railway Stations and places within the jurisdiction of the several Deputy
Commissioners and Political Agents in Balochistan is given in Appendix IIL.

In fixing dates for the return of such processes a reasonable time, not less than six
weeks, should be allowed for effecting service.

(ii) Jammu and Kashmir, Gwalior, Alwar, Indore and Gondal

Processes issued by the Courts in British India for service within the territories of His
Highness the Maharaja of Jammu and Kashmir, His Highness the Maharaja of Gwalior, His
Highness the Maharaja of Alwar and His Highness the Holkar of Indore will be served by State
Courts free of charge and vice versa, no fee will be charged by Courts in British India on
processes issued by the Courts in those territories and sent for service within British territory.

The scale of process fee as laid down by the Gondal Durbar for the service of
summonses in civil suits is four annas for every Rs. 25 of the value of the suit or part thereof up
to a maximum of Rs. 10/-. This amount is to be remitted by Postal Money Order. No process
fee is, however, charged by the state for service of summonses in criminal cases,

The term “Civil Process” means and includes a summons, a proclamation, a notice
and interrogatories.


--- Page 597 ---
68 High Court Rules and Orders — Vol. IV
—

Note.-- So far as the Government of His Highness the Maharaja Holkar of Indore is
concerned, the terms “Civil Process” include “Commissions for the examination of witnesses”.

All summonses intended for service on persons resident within the territory of Azad
Jammu and Kashmir shall be sent direct by the Courts issuing them to the Courts in Kashmir
concerned and not through the Resident.

In fixing dates for the return of such summonses a Court should have regard to the
situation of the Kashmir Court through which the summonses are not to be served. A list of
Civil Courts in Azad Jammu and Kashmir is given in Appendix IV.

(iii) Hyderabad

For a list of persons privileged in the Indore State on whom civil processes should be
served through the agency of the Hon'ble the Resident for Central India, see High Court
Circular No. 9798-R/XIX-F.-15, dated the 17th October, 1939.

By arrangement between the Government of India and His Exalted Highness the
Nizam of Hyderabad, civil processes for service or execution within His Highness’ territories
will be issued and served in accordance with the rules applicable to processes of Civil Courts
established in British India.

Process issued by Civil Courts in His Highness the Nizam’s territories will be served
or executed in the Province as if they were processes of Civil Courts established in British India.

In the case of processes for service in the city of Hyderabad, a period of not less than
six weeks should be fixed for the return; and in the case of processes for service elsewhere in
His Highness the Nizam’s territories, a period of not less than two months should be allowed.

The Paigah’ and Jagir Ilakas in the territories of His Highness the Nizam. of
Hyderabad are excluded from the reciprocal arrangements. All civil processes for service on
persons residing in these Ilakas should be forwarded to the District Court of High Highness’
Government, in the jurisdiction of which the Paigah” or Jagir village concerned is situated and
not direct to the Paigah’ or Jagir authorities.

As the Paigah’ and Jagir villages are very numerous, the Court, when issuing a
summons to any person residing in His Highness the Nizam’s territories, should ascertain from
the party at whose instance the summons issues, whether the person named in the summons
resides in a Paigah” or Jagir village and if so the name of the district within the jurisdiction of
which the village is situated.

(iv) Baroda

Government of India, Foreign Department, Notification No. 1568-IB, dated the 10th
August, 1909, provides that summonses issued by Courts in British India under the Code of
Civil Procedure may be served by any Civil Court of the Baroda State. The Baroda Durbar have
instructed their Civil Courts to receive Summonses and other civil processes direct from Courts
in British India and so return them direct after service.

A list of Civil Courts in the Baroda State, showing the locality of each Court and the
area of its jurisdiction, will be found in Appendix V of this part.

(v) Rampur State
"Paigah Tlakas are certain estates in Hyderabad State comprising 23, talukas dispersed over the districts of Bidar, Nander
Osmanabad, Gulbarga, Medak Atraf-i-balds- and Nizamabad and a few scattered villages in Aurangabad, Warangal
Muhbubnagar and Nalgonda. These estates belong to the representatives of three deceased noblemen and were originally
granted to them for maintaining troops for the Nizam.


--- Page 598 ---
High Court Rules and Orders — Vol. IV 69
—
Processes issued by British Courts for service within the territory of High Highness
the Nawab of Rampur State will be received direct by the State Courts and served free of
charge. Similarly, processes issued by the Courts in the Rampur State will be received direct by
the British Courts and served free of charge.
A list of Civil Courts in the Rampur State will be found in Appendix VI to this Chapter.
6. Special procedure in regard to some particular foreign countries is given below:-
(i) Afghanistan

There is no agency in Afghanistan for the service of summonses on witnesses issued
by the Punjab Courts. It is, therefore, unless to issue such summonses.

Defendants can only be summoned under Rule 25 of Order V of the Civil Procedure
Code in other words by issue of a summons direct to them by post and not through any agency.

If action under Rule 25 of Order V fails, Order V, Rule 26 does not apply, as there is
no Pakistan authority for the service of such summonses in Afghanistan.

The Punjab Courts should, in no case, address Afghanistan Courts or officials or the
Pakistani Consulate in Kabul direct.

Violation of these instructions by Subordinate Judges, Magistrates and members of
their staffs concerned with the dispatch of summonses causes much embarrassment to the
Government of Pakistan.

It will be impossible to treat breaches of them with leniency even though they may
have been the result of mere carelessness.

In case of any further contravention, disciplinary action will be taken by way of
stopping the increments of the official or officials concerned or otherwise as may be considered
suitable.

(if) Mauritius

Every process for service in the town of Mauritius shall be accompanied by a
remittance of Rs. 3 per person to be served. If the process is to be served in the country, a
further sum at the rate of 75 cents or about two rupees per mile (to and fro) should be remitted.
When documents are written in the vernacular, a sum of Rs. 10 should be remitted as translation
charges. But in all cases in English translation should be sent.

(iif) United Stated of America

Service in this country is normally done by appointing a local lawyer acting as agent
for the parties. Where desired Pakistani Consular Officer will recommend suitable firm of local
lawyers.

(iv) Keyna

Processes for service should be sent in duplicate, the copies to be identified “original”
and “duplicate”, and should be scaled with the Court’s Seal. A Postal Order of 10 Shillings for
expenses of service should accompany the process.

(v) Union of South Africa

Summonses and other processes should not be sent direct to that country but should
be sent as mentioned in rule 4(a).

The returnable date of the summonses or other processes should be at least six
months.


--- Page 599 ---
70 High Court Rules and Orders — Vol. IV
—_—
The charges for service should be sent alongwith the summonses or other processes.
The fees ordinarily charged by the Courts in the various provinces of the Union of
South Africa for the service of summonses issued by Courts in Pakistan are given below: ---
Province Fees for | Travelling allowance | Radius (from Deputy Sheriff's office)
service | (per mile or fraction of a | within which no transport allowance
mile} allowed
Criminal 1
onl
13d
SCHEDULE
(Vide Paragraph 4(i), Chapter 7-F — Volume IV)
List of countries in which it is unnecessary to apply for permission to the Foreign
Office for service of processes:

(1) Aden

(2) British East Africa

(3) Japan

(4) Thailand

(5) Netherlands East Africa

(6) Iran

(7) Federated Malay States

PART G — ASSISTANCE BY VILLAGE OFFICERS IN PROCESS-SERVING

1. The Financial Commissioners have invited the attention of all the Collectors in the
Punjab to the necessity of impressing upon the Lambardar that as one of their duties under Rule
20 of the Land Revenue Rules, is to assist all officers of the Government in the execution of
their public duties, they are expected to assist the process-servers in serving processes in Civil
and Criminal cases and that the more care they devote to this branch of the administration, the
more expeditiously will the suits be decided. It was further pointed out that it was obviously to
the benefit of the village that the Lambardars should do his best to assist in the service of the
processes. Subordinate Courts should bring to the notice of the Collectors cases of wilful
negligence of duty in this direction on the part of Lambardars and should not hesitate to move
the High Court through the proper channel if matters do not improve even then.

2. In order to reduce the possibility of false reports being made on notices of sale, which
are not uncommon, it has been decided that the process-server’s report on a notice of sale should
be attested by a Lambardar and, whenever possible, also by the village patwari or school
master. The Financial Commissioner, Revenue, and the Director of Public Instruction have
respectively instructed patwaris and school masters to attest such reports when asked. The
absence of attestation by a patwari or school master should not necessarily be regarded as proof
that the process-server’s report is false.

PART H — COST OF POSTAGE AND REGISTRATION ON PROCESSES
FORWARDED BY POST, HOW TO BE DEFRAYED


--- Page 600 ---
High Court Rules and Orders — Vol. IV 7
————
1. Service stamps to be used. Party not required to pay postal charges except under
Order 5, Rule 10, C.P.C.—Postal charges on all processes, notices, and other such documents,
issued from any Court and transmitted by post, are to be paid by means of service postage
stamps, without any additional charge being levied from the parties at whose instance the
process of document is issued. In cases in which it is considered necessary to register the cover,
the fee for registering it will also be paid by means of service postage stamps. (See Section 143
of the Code of Civil Procedure).

In the case of processes transmitted by post under the proviso to Rule 10, Order V, of
the First Schedule to the Code of Civil Procedure, when the order is that service should be made
in the ordinary way as well as post by, the party at whose instance the process is issued, will be
required to pay all postal charges for postage and registration; if service is to be effected by post
only, the postal charges will be paid by means of service postage stamps and he will pay only
the normal process-fee. When the party concerned puts in a stamped postal envelope, the
Ahlmad or the Moharrir should give him a receipt in lieu thereof.

2. Service stamps to be used for transmission of processes to another Province.—
Processes received for service from Courts in other Provinces should be returned in service
postage paid covers, the stamps being provided by the returning Court. Similarly, processes
returned to Punjab Courts from Courts in other Provinces will be sent in service postage paid
covers. The same rule, of course, applies to processes returned by or to other Courts in the
same Province.

Service postage labels required for this purpose will be obtained in the usual way.

PART J — POLICE ASSISTANCE

1. The Punjab Government has decided that the following conditions should govern the
rendering of Police assistance to the Civil Courts in the execution of warrants of arrest and
distress.

2. ‘When request may be made for Police assistance.—A Subordinate Judge may move
the District Judge, or in his absence from the district, the Senior Subordinate Judge to ask the
District Magistrate for Police assistance. The request must be accompanied by evidence of the
circumstances sufficient to satisfy the District Magistrate that there is a design to commit a
cognizable offence or that there is a likelihood of the commission of a cognizable offence by the
person or persons on whom a warrant of arrest or distress or for the possession of immovable
property is to be served.

3. Government should be informed when Police assistance permitted.—In all ca in
which the District Magistrate has given permission for the employment of Police for the
assistance of the Civil Courts in the execution of warrants, a report of the circumstances should
be submitted by him through the Commissioner to the Provincial Government.

4. Cost of the Police employed.—The cost of the Police employed on such duty will be
shown in the Budget of the Judicial Department, under the head “27 — Administration of Justice
— Civil and Sessions Courts — District and Sessions Judges” under the primary unit of
appropriation “Charges payable to other Governments, Departments, etc.,” and the credit will
be taken by the Police Department under the head “26 — Police — District Executive Force” by
reduction of expenditure under that head under an entry “deduct cost of establishment debitable
to ‘27 — Administration of Justice, etc.”

(Punjab Government letter No. 37074 (H. — Judi.), dated the 19th November, 1929)
PART K — FILLINGUP OF FORMS OR PROCESS


--- Page 601 ---
72 High Court Rules and Orders — Vol. IV
————

1. Option of a party to fill up forms.—With their applications for the issue of process,
parties may, if they so desire, file printed forms of the same duly filled up in accordance with
the rules of the High Court regarding the issue of the process. The date of appearance and the
date of the process will be left blank.

2. Responsibility for accuracy of contents.—The parties or their pleaders shall sign the
forms thus filed in the left bottom corner, and will be held responsible for the accuracy of the
information entered in the forms.

3. Legible handwriting.—The form must be filled up in a bold, clear and easily legible
handwriting.

4. Dates to be titled in by office. —When orders for the issue of process are passed by
the Court, the date fixed for appearance will be inserted in the form and the process will be
dated by an officer of the Court before the processes are signed.

5. Free supply of forms.—The necessary number of printed forms of process will be
supplied to the parties or their pleaders, free of cost, on application to such officer of the Court
as the Presiding Judge shall direct.

APPENDIX I
Affidavit of Process-tarter to accompany Return of a Summons or Notice (0. 5, R. 18)
(Title)

The Affidavit of son of

I make oath/affirm and say as follows: --

(1) Tama process-server of this Court,

(2) On the day of 19 I received a summons notice issued by
the Court of in Suit No, of 19 , in the said Court, dated the

day of 19 for service on :

(3) The said was at the time personally known to me and I served the said
summons/notice on him/her on the, day of 19 at about o’clock on
the moon at by tendering a copy thereof to him/her and requiring his/her signature
to the original summons/notice.

@

®

(a) Here state whether the person served signed or refused to sign the process and in

whose presence.

(b) Signature of process-server.

or

(3) The said not being personally known to me accompanied me
to and pointed out to me a person whom he stated to be the said and I served
the said summons/notice on him/her day of 19 at
about oclock in the noon at by tendering a copy thereof to him/her and
requiring his/her signature to the original summons/notice:

(a)

(b)


--- Page 602 ---
High Court Rules and Orders — Vol. IV 73
—
(a) Here state whether the person served signed or refused to sign the process and in
whose presence.
(b) Signature of process-server.
or

(3) The said and his house in which he ordinarily resides being personally
known to me/pointed out to me by I went to said house in and there on the

day of 19; at o’clock in the fore/after noon I did not find the said I
enquired from (a) neighbours

(b) neighbours
I was told that had gone to and would not be back till
Signature of process-server
or

If substituted service has been ordered, state fully and exactly the manner in which
the summons was served with special reference to the terms of the order for substituted service.

Sworn/Affirmed by the said before me this day of
19.

Empowered under section 139 of the code
of Civil Procedure to administer the
oath to deponents.
APPENDIX II

The following notifications provide for the service of summonses issued out of Civil
Courts in British India by Courts established or continued by the Government of India in the
territories of Native States, and similar cases: —

(i) Government of India Notification No. 1336-4 dated the 29th March, 1899.

In exercise of the powers conferred by Sections 4 and 5 of the Foreign Jurisdiction
and Extradition Act, 1879, and of all other powers enabling him in this behalf, the Governor-
General in Council is pleased to direct that a summons issued by any Civil or Revenue Court in
British India, for service within the local limits of the jurisdiction of a Court established or
continued by the authority of the Governor-General in Council in the territories of any Foreign
Prince or State shall, if sent to that Court, be served by that Court within those limits in manner
provided by Code of Civil Procedure, and after being so served be returned with such an
endorsement under the hand of the Judge of the Court as is mentioned in Section 90 of the
Code."

(ii) Government of India Notification No. 1367-J, dated the 29th March, 1889.

In exercise of the powers conferred by Sections 4 and 5 of the Foreign Jurisdiction
and Extradition Act, 1879, and of all other powers enabling him in this behalf, the Governor-
General in Council is pleased to direct that a summons issued by any Court established or
continued by the authority of the Governor-General in Council in the territories of any Foreign
Prince or State for service within the local limits of the jurisdiction of any other such Courts
shall, if sent to the other Court, be served by that Court within those limits in manner provided
"Order V, Rule 26, Code of 1908.


--- Page 603 ---
74 High Court Rules and Orders — Vol. IV
—
by the Code of Civil Procedure, and after being so served, be returned with such an
endorsement under the hand of the Judge of the Court as is mentioned in Section 90 of that
Code.
APPENDIX III

List of places within the jurisdiction of the Political Agents, Quetta, Sibi, Loralai,

Zhob, Kalat and Chaghai.
QUETTA-PESHIN DISTRICT

Aghbarg, Alezai, Arambi, Badezai, Baleli, Band Malezi, Bostan, Chaman, Gulistan,
Gulistan Karez, Habibzai, Haikalzai. Hanna, Inayatullah Karez, Kakozai, Karbala, Kasi Kazha
Viald, Kechi Beg, Khanozai, Khar, Khanai, Khudazai, Killa Abdulla Kirani, Kotwal, Kuchlak,
Manzaki, Manzari, Mohammad Khel, Panjpai, Pishin, Quetta, Sanzal, Sanzalla, Saranan,
Sariab, Segi, Shalabagh, Sra Ghurk, Syed Hamid and Yaru,

SIBI DISTRICT

Ahmadun, Azad Shahr, Babarkach, Belpat, Bhakra, Ghulam Bolak, Chandia, Dehpal,
Dirgi, Gandakha, Dashkori, Gullu Shahr, Hamidpur, Harnai, Jhatpat, Kach, Karam Khan
Shahr, Khajak, Khost, Khowas, Kohlu, Kurk, Mindsay, Malikzai, Mamal, Mangi, Manjhipur,
Mian Kach, Mithri Muhammadpur, Nakus, Nari, Nattal, Oriani, Rojhan, Sangan, Shahrig,
Sohbatpur, Spintangi, Sunari, Talli, Temple Dera, Yateabad, Zandra and Zardaloo.

LORALAI DISTRICT

Barkhan, Chotiali, Chuhar Kot, Dhamani, Dirgi, Duki, Haji Kot, Hazara Shahr,
Ismail Shahr, Khujuri, Kingri, Kudezai, Lagharbah, Leghari Kot, Loralai, Mekhtar Nahar Kot,
Nimki, Pathan Kot, Pitoo, Husan Khel, Rakhni, Salli, Shahbozai, Shadezai, Sinjawai, Shira,
Smallan, Tai, Tap, Wah, Wahan Kalan, Wahan Khurd, Wani, Yaru, Shahr, Zama Zawar Zebri,
and Zhazha.

ZHOB DISTRICT

Akhtarzai, Alikhel, Apozai, Babu China, Badinzai, Bahadurwal Bandat Mirzai,
Batozai, Brunj, Chalera Pasta, Fort Sandeman, Gadai Khel, Ghorezai Pitao, Girda, Gwal
Ismailzai, Haidarzai, Hindubagh, Hurmzai, Inder Bes, Kajir, Kakha, Kamar-ud-Din Karez,
Kapip Kaur Mehtarzai, Kazha Killa Saifullah, Koria Wasta, Kunder, Marghbal, Mardanzai.
'Order V, Rule 26, Code of 1908.


--- Page 604 ---
High Court Rules and Orders — Vol. IV 7s

— High Coun Rules and Orders Voll TS
APPENDIX IV
List of Civil Courts in the Jammu and Kashmir State

[1 [ Subludge Jammu  [ Jammu |
[4 [| Munsif, Sri Ranbirsinghpura | Ranbirsinghpura |
[6 | Munsif, Mirpur [| Mirpur 1]
[ 8 [| Subludge, Udhampur | Udhampur |
[9 [| MunsiffReasi ~~ [ Reasi |
[16 Munsit Kishiwar | ishtwar fn summer nd Doda fn winer |
TET Manet Rawr Row]
[ 14. | Munsif, Bhimber | Bhimber |
[ 16. [| Munsif Samba | Samba |
[18 Tohoidar, Ramban | Ramban |
[ 19. [| Tehsildar, Basohli | Basohi |
[ 40. [| Wazir Wazarat, Bhadarwah | Bahadarwah |
[ 41. [ Tehsildar, Langet | Langet |


--- Page 605 ---
76 High Court Rules and Orders — Vol. IV
—_—
APPENDIX V
List of Civil Courts of the Baroda State

No.
[¢ [2 3 4 [5 1]
I al ll Se
Nyayadhish®
I VO Wl Ws illic
unsif’s Court Waghodia Taluka,
sh B+ Neck
Nyayadhishi Mahal.
I Rh Bl cc
Nyayadhishi
i ccc
Nyayadhishi.
I cel
Nyayadhishi
TR
Nvayadhishi
I a cc
Nvayadhishi
I, Bl Wa co
Nyayadhishi
handed Chandod in [Chandod.
abiwatdar’s Baroda
Nvayadhishi
akowada Divan] Tkwada in Tilakwada Peta Mahal.
amdar’s Court. Baroda
Nvayadhishi
Ill cei
Nyayadhishi
I Rh ocd
Nyayadhishi
I Ral ll hel
Nyayadhishi. Wadnagar Peta Mahal
I Ea a
Nyayadhishi
IV, Wa co —
Nyayadhishi
I i iB Co
Nvayadhishi
ES a
Nyayadhishi
IS all ll li
Nyayadhishi [Peta Mahal.
Mc a ce
Nyayadhishi
“The Prant Nyayadhishi is the District Court. When it is known in which Mahal (Taluka) of the District the person to be
summoned resides the summons should be sent direct to Mabal Nyayadhishi.


--- Page 606 ---
High Court Rules and Orders — Vol. IV 77
ewmewseowr 0
al a Wl Vo Slab

INyayadhishi’ [Mian of Mandwa.
lO i Wl Ge
INvayadhishi'
ll Wl 0 9 Pe
INyayadhishi [Talukas and Wakal Peta Mahal.
7
INvayadhishi [Talukas.
26 [Vajpur Divini[Vajpur [Vajpur Peta Mahal
amdar’s
INvavadhishi
27 |Malangdeo, DiwaniMalangdeo Malangdeo Peta Mahal.
Ih al i
INvayadhishi
28  [Salher DiwaniSalher Salher Peta Mahal.
I= a a
INvayadhishi
29 |Umarpada DiwaniUmarpada Umarpada Peta Mahal.
amdars
INvayadhishi
30 |Amreli PrantA Amreli Amreli district.
ll Wi
Il PO Wl ic
INyayadhishi
ll Wa
INyayadhishi
33 Okhamandal Maha Dwarka (Okhamandal Taluka
Nyayadhishi
34 [Bet Diwani| Bet [Pet Shankhodhar
amdars
[Nvayadhishi
35 |Ratanpur ~~ Diwani Ratanpur [Ratanpur Peta Mahal.
I= el
[Nvayadhishi
36 [Bhim Katta Diwani Bhim Katta. [Bhim Katta Peta Mahal.
whi a
[Nyayadhishi
37 ambha Diwani| Khambha [Khambha Peta Mahal
amdars
[Nyayadhishi
‘Mandwa is situated on the Vatrak river, and these villages adjoin it in the Baroda enclave, that is bounded
by Vatrak river on the west and by the Mahi Kantha and the Kapadvanj and Prantij tahsils on the remaining sides.
"The Prant Nyayadhishi is the District Court. When it is known in which Mahal (Taluka) of the District the person to be
summoned resides, the summons should be sent direct to that Mahal Nyayadhishi.


--- Page 607 ---
78 High Court Rules and Orders — Vol. IV
————
APPENDIX VI

List of countries and Courts to which Section 29 and Clause (b) in Rule 26 of

Order V in the First Schedule of the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (Act V of 1908) have
been applied.

1. Federation of Malaya.

2. Courts in Ceylon.

3. Civil Courts in France, Spain, Belgium, Russia and Portugal.

4. Egyptian mixed Courts.

5. All Civil and Revenue Court in Iraq.

6. All Civil and Courts in Kenya.

7. Civil Courts in Iran.

8. Civil Courts in Sweden.

9. Civil Courts in Japan.

10. Certain Courts in Nepal.

11. Civil Courts in the Union of South Africa.

12. Indian States in direct relation with the Government of India and the Punjab

Government (see First Schedule).

(i) Government of India, Legislative Department, Notifications No. F.
202/4/11/41-C, & G. (Judi.), and No. F. 202/4/1/41-C & G. (Judl.), dated the
20th February, 1942, as subsequently amended by Government of India
notifications mentioned in Statement A annexed hereto.

(ii) ~~ Punjab Government Political Department — General Notification No. 1191-P.
G-42/25398, dated the 22nd April, 1942, as subsequently amended by Punjab
Government notifications mentioned in Statement B annexed hereto.

13. Courts in Johore State (an Unfederated Malaya State) (see Second Schedule).
FIRST SCHEDULE
(See item 12 of this Appendix)
“(a) For Delhi Province

[0] “GOVERNMENT OF INDIA —- LEGISLATIVE DEPARTMENT

Notification No. F. 202/4//41/C & G. (Judl.), dated the 20th February, 1942, as
subsequently amended by Government of India notifications mentioned in Statement A annexed
hereto.

In pursuance of the proviso to Section 29 of the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (Act

V of 1908), and in supersession of the Notification of the Government of India in the late
Foreign Political Department No. 323-1, dated the 15th May, 1929, and of all notifications
amending the tame, insofar as they relate to the Chief Commissioners’ Provinces, the Central
Government is Placed to direct that, insofar as those Provinces are concerned, the provisions of
the said section shall apply to the Courts specified in the Schedule hereto annexed:


--- Page 608 ---
High Court Rules and Orders — Vol. IV 79
EE
THE SCHEDULE
Agency State Court
Baroda and Baroda All Civil and Revenue Courts.
Gujrat States
Agency
Agar Court of the Thakore.
Balasinor High Court, Balasinor.
Court of the Sar Nyayadhish
Court of the Nyayadhish
Court of the Sub-Judge, Birpur.
Bansda Huzur Court.
Court of the District and Sessions Judge
Court of the Nyayadhish
Baria Huzur Court.
Court of the Sar Nyayadhish
Bhaderwa Huzur Court
Court of the Nyayadhish
Cambay Court of the Sar Nyayadhish
Court of the Nyayadhish
Chhota Udepur Huzur Court
High Court
Court of the Sar Nyayadhish.
Court of the Nayadhish.
Dharampur Court of the Judge.
Court of the District Judge.
Gad Bariad Court of the Manager.
Jambughoda Huzur Court.
1 Barodaand Baroda — concld. Court of the Sar Nyayadhish.
Gujarat States
Agency- concld.
Court of the Nyayndhish.
Jawhar Court of the Sar Nyayadhish.
Court of the Nyayadhish.
Kadana Court of the Manager, Kadana.
Court of the Nyayadhish, Kadana
Lunawada Huzur Court.
Court of the Sar Nyayadhish.
Court of the Nyayadhish.
Mandwa Court of the Thakore.
Court of the Karbhari,
First Class Sub-Judge’s Court.
Nyayadhish’s Court.
Naswadi Court of the Thakore.
Court of the Nyayadhish.
Palasni Court of Thakore.
Rajpipla Huzur Court.
Court of the Sar Nyayadhish.
Court of the Munsiff of Nandod.
Court of the Munsiff of Jhagadia.
Sachin High Court of Sachin.
District and Session Judge, Sachin.
District Magistrate and Sub-Judge of
Sachin.
Sanjeli Court of the Manager, Sanjeli.
Sent Huzur Court.


--- Page 609 ---
80 High Court Rules and Orders — Vol. IV
a
Court of the Nyayadhish.
Shanor Court of the Thakore.
Sihora Court of the Thakore.
Sargana Court of the Magistrate, Sargana.
Uchad Court of the Thakore.
Umeta Court of the Manager.
Vajiria Court of the Thakore.
2. Central India
Civil Courts
(i) Bhopal Bhopal The High Court, Bhopal.
District Court, Eastern District
(including Tahsils Nasrullaganj and
Madanpur and excluding Tahsils
Dewanganj and Piklon), Bhopal.
District Court, Bhopal City.
District Court, Western District
(including Tahsils Dewanganj and
Piklon and excluding Tahsils
Nasrullaganj and Madanpur).
Sehore.
Sub-Judge, Bhopal City.
Sub-Judge, Begumganj.
Sub-Judge, Bereli.
Sub-Judge, Gohargunj.
Sub-Judge, Dewanganj, Bhopal.
Sub-Judge, Berasia.
Sub-Judge, Huzur Bhopal.
Sub-Judge, Sehore.
Munsiff, Sehore.
Munsiff, Bhopal City.
Munsiff, Raisen.
Munsiff, Bambori.
Munsiff, Udaipura.
Munsiff, Nasrullagan;.
Munsiff, Dewanganj, Bhopal.
Munsift, Piklon.
Munsift, Hazur Bhopal.
Revenue Courts:
Revenue Member's Court, Bhopal.
Nazim of Eastern District, Raisen.
Nazim of Western District, Sehore.
Dewas Senior Sub-Judge’s Court, Dewas Senior Branch.
Dewas Junior District Court, Dewas Junior Branch.
Khilchipur Civil Judge’s Court, Khilchipur.
Court of the Dewan, Khilchipur.
Kurwai Civil Court, Kurwai.
Revenue Court, Kurwai.
Makrai All Civil and Revenue Courts.
Mohammad-garh Court of the Superintendent,
Mohammadgarh.
Narsingarh District Judge, Narsingarh.
Musif, Sadar Narsingarh.
Munsiff, Khujner.
Court of the Revenue Officer,
Narsingarh.
Pathari Civil Court, Pathari.


--- Page 610 ---
High Court Rules and Orders — Vol. IV 81
EE
Court of Superintendent, Pathari.
Rajgarh Sub-Judge's Court, Biaora.
Munsiff s Court, Rajgarh.
Munsiff's Court, Talen.
Munsiff's Court, Kotre.
(ii) Bundel-khand Ajaigarh Darbar's Court, Ajagarh.
Baoni Court of the Diwan, Baoni State,
Kadaura.
Baraundha Court of the Diwan, Baraundha.
Bijawar Court of the Darbar, Bijawar.
Charkhari Court of the Darbar, Charkhari.
Datia High Court, Datia.
Chief Revenue Officer's Court, Datia.
Maihar Court of the Dewan, Maihar.
Nagod Court of the Dewan, Nagod.
Panna Court of the Darbar, Panna.
Sohawal Court of the Dewan, Sohawal.
(iii) Indore Indore Civil Courts.
High Court of Judicature, Indore.
District Court, Nimar, Mandlesar.
Ist Grade Munsiff s Court, Mandlesar.
District Court, Rampura Bhanpura Garote.
District Court, Mahidpur.
District Court, Nimawar, Kannod.
District Court, Indore.
1st Grade Munsiff's Court,
Khargone.
1st Grade Munsiff's Court, Manasa.
Revenue Courts:
All Revenue Courts in the Indore State.
Rewa Civil Courts:
Chief Court, Rewa Stac, Rewa.
District and Sessions Judge, North
Rewa, Rewa.
Deputy Magistrate and Munsiff
Rewa, Rewa.
Deputy Magistrate and Munsiff,
Raghurajnagar, Satna.
Deputy Magistrate and Munsiff,
Teonthar, Teonthar.
Deputy Magistrate and Munsiff,
Mauganj, Mauganj.
District and Sessions Judge and
Deputy Revenue Commissioner,
East Rewa, Baghaun.
Deputy Magistrate and Munsiff,
Gopad Banas, Sidhi.
District and Sessions Judge and
Deputy Revenue Commissioner,
Suth Rewa, Umaria.
District Magistrate and Munsiff,
Sohagpur, Burhar.
Court of the Revenue Minister, Rewa.
Deputy Recenue Commission, Rewa.
Tahsildar, Hazoor Tahsil, Rewa.
Tahsildar, Raghurajnagar, Satna.


--- Page 611 ---
82 High Court Rules and Orders — Vol. IV
a
Tahsildar, Teonthaj, Teonthar.
Tahsildar, Sirmour, Sirmour.
Tahsildar, Maughanj, Maughanj.
District and Sessions Judge and
Deputy Revenue Commissioner,
East Rewa, Baghaun.
Tahsildar, Gopad Banas, Sidhi.
Tahsildar, Beohari, Beohari.
Tahsildar, Deosar, Deosar.
District and Sessions Judge and
Deputy Revenue Commissioner,
South Rewa, Umaria.
Tahsildar, Sire Bandhogarh, Umaria.
Tahsildar, Sohagpur, Sohagpur.
(iv) Malwa Alirajpur Munsiff's Court, Alirajpur.
Barwani Chief Judge's Court, Barwani.
Revenue Officer's Court, Barwani.
Dhar District Magistrate's Court, Dhar.
Chief Revenue Officer's Court, Dhar.
Jaora Chief Judge's Court, Jeora,
Chief Court of the Suba of Jaora.
Jhabua Nazim’s Court, Jhabua.
Jobat Court of the Kamdar, Jobat.
Kathiwara Court of the Thakur of Kathiwara,
Post Office Kathiwara via Alirajpur.
Mathwar Court of the Kamdar, Mathwar State
Post Office Kanvat, Chhota Udepur, State.
Pipoda Court of the Superintendent Piploda State.
Ratanmal Court of the Kamdar, Ratanmal
State, Post Office Devgad Baria.
Ratlam Judge's Court, Ratlam.
Sailana Court of the Sar Nyayadhish of Sailana.
Sitamau Court of the Sar Nyayadhish, Sitamau.
3. Eastern States:
(i) Bengal States Cocch Behar All Civil and Revenue Courts.
Mayurbhanj Ditto
Tripura Ditto
(if) Chhattisgarh ~~ Bastar Ditto
States:
Changbhakar Ditto
Chhuikhadan Ditto
Jashpur Ditto
Kalahandi (Karond) Ditto
Kanker Ditto
Kawardha Ditto
Khairagarh Ditto
Korea Ditto
Nandgaon Ditto
Patna Ditto
Raigarh Ditto
Sakti Ditto
Sarangarh Ditto
Surguja Ditto
Udaipur Ditto
(if) Orissa States ~~ Athgarh All Civil and Revenue Courts.
Athmallik Ditto


--- Page 612 ---
High Court Rules and Orders — Vol. IV 83
EE ]

Bamra Ditto

Baramba Ditto

Baudh Ditto

Bonai All Civil and Revenue Courts.

Daspalla Ditto

Dhenkanal Ditto

Gangpur Ditto

Hindol Ditto

Koenjha Ditto

Khandpara, Ditto

Kharsawan Ditto

Narsinghpur

Nayagarh Ditto

Nilgiri Ditto

Pal-Lahara Ditto

Rairakhot Ditto

Ranpur Ditto

Seraikela Ditto

Sonepur Ditto

Taleher Ditto

Tigiria Ditto

4. Gwalior Benarc Civil Courts:

Chief Court, Ramnagar.
District Judge's Court, Gyanpur,
District Bhadohi.
District Judge's Court, Chakia.
District Judge's Court, Ramnagar.
Munsiff s Court, Gyanpur, District
Bhadohi.
Munsiff s Court, Chakia.
Munsiff s Court, Ramnagar.
Revenue Courts:
Collector's Court, Gyanpur, District Bhadoi.
Collector's Court, Chakia.
Collector's Court, Ramnagar.
Deputy Collector's Court, Gyanpur,
District Bhadohi.
Assistant Collector's Court, Tahsil
East Gyanpur, District Bhadohi.
Assistant Collector's Court, Tahsil
West Gyanpur, District Bhadohi.
Assistant Collector's Court, Ramnagar.
Assistant Collector's Court, Chakia.

Gwalior All Civil and Revenue Courts.

Rampur Civil and Revenue Courts:
Ijlas Humayun.
Judicial Committee of the Ijlac
Humayun.
The High Court of Judicature.
Court of Civil Judge.
Court of Additional Civil Judge.
Board of Revenue.
Nizamat,
Court of Assistant Collector, Tahsil Huzur.
Court of Assistant Collector, Tahsil
Shahabad.


--- Page 613 ---
84 High Court Rules and Orders — Vol. IV
a
Court of Assistant Collector, Tahsil Milak.
Court of Assistant Collector, Tahsil Suar.
Court of Assistant Collector, Tahsil Tanda.
5. Hyderabad Hydrabad All Civil and Revenue Courts.’
6. Kashmir Kashmir All Civil and Revenue Courts.
7. Kolhapur and Akalkot Court of the Raja of Akalkot.
Deccan State
High Court of Judicature, Akalkot.
Court of District and Sessions Judge,
Akalkot.
Court of the Joint Nyayadhish, Akalkot.
Court of the Subordinate Judge at Piliv.
Court of the Subordinate Judge at Kurala.
Aundh Court of the Nyayadhish, Aundh State.
Court of the Subordinate Judge,
Aundh, Taluka.
Court of the Subordinate Judge,
Gundal, Taluka.
Court of the Subordinate Judge,
Atpadi Taluka.
Court of Subordinate Judge, Kundal Taluka.
Bhor High Court, Bhor.
Court of the District Judge, Bhor.
Court of Munsif at Bhor.
Court of the Munsiff at Pirangut.
Court of the Munsiff at Pali.
Jamkhandi Huzur or Court of the Raja of Jamkhandi.
High Court, Jamkhandi.
Court of Sar Nyayadhish or the
District Judge, Jamkhandi.
Court of the Nyayadhish and First Class
Sub-Judge, Jamkhandi.
Court of the Munsiff and First Class
sub-Judge, Kundgol.
Court of Munsiff or Wahiwafdur,
Thana Wathar.
Court of Munsiff or Wahiwatdar,
Thana Patkal.
Janjira High Court, Janjira.
Court of the Sar Nyayadish of Janjira.
Court of the Munsiff of Janjira.
Court of the Munsiff at Jafarabad in
Kathiawar.
Court of the Mamlatdar at Jafarabad
in Kathiawar.
Jath Supreme Court of the Ruler.
High Court of Judicature, Jath State.
Court of the District Judge.
Court of the First Class Subordinate Judge.
Kolhapur (1) Courts in the Kolhapur State proper:
The Combined Court of the Resident for
Kolhapur and the Deccan States and His
Highness the Chhatrapati Maharaja of
Kolhapur.
The Supreme Court of His Highness.
The High Court of Judicature at Kolhapur.


--- Page 614 ---
High Court Rules and Orders — Vol. IV 85
a
The Court of the District Judge, Kolhapur.
The Court of the Assistant Judge, Kolhapur.
The Court of the First Class Sub-Judge,
Kolhapur.
The Court of Second Class Sub-Judge,
Kolhapur.
The Court of the Second Class Sub-Judge,
Shirol.
The Court of the Second Class Sub-Judge,
Gadhingalaj.
The Court of the Second Class Sub-Judge,
Radhanagari.
The Court of the Second Class Sub-Judge,
Panhala.
The Court of the Second class Sub-Judge,
Katkol.
The Court of the Second Class Sub-Judge,
Raibagh.
The Court of the Second Class Sub-Judge,
Hatkanangale.
The Second Class Sub-Judge,
Meh-Malharrao-Gaikwad Vishwasrac.
The Second Class Sub-Judge, Mah.
Kashatra-Jagad-guru.
The Second Class Sub-Judge, Meh.
Chinchalikar.
The Second Class Sub-Judge, Meh.
Khanawatkar.
The Second Class Sub-Judge, Meh.
Patankar.
(2) Courts in the Feudatory Jaghirdars:
The Court of the Jaghirdar of Jehakaranji.
The Court of the Jaghindar of Kagal
(Senior).
The Court of the Jaghirdar of Vishalgad.
The Court of the Jaghirdar of Bavada.
The Court of the Jaghirdar of Kagal
(Junior).
The Court of the Jaghirdar of Kapshi.
The Court of the Jaghirdar of Himat
Bahadur.
The Court of the Jaghirdar of Torgal.
The Court of the Jaghirdar
of Sarlashk Bahadur.
The Munsiff s Court, Ichalkaranji.
The Munsiff's Court, Ajra.
The Munsiff's Court, Kagal (Senior).
The Munsiff's Court, Vavada.
The Munsiff's Court, Kagal (Junior).
The Munsiff's Court, Vishalgard.
The Munsiff's Court, Sarlashkar Bahadur.
The Munsiff's Court, Torgal.
The Munsiff's Court, Kapshi.
The Munsiff's Court, Himat Bahadur.
The Court of Joint Officer, Mahagaon.
Kurundwad Chief's Court of High Court.


--- Page 615 ---
86 High Court Rules and Orders — Vol. IV
Be
(Senior)
Sar Nyayadhish Court and the
District Judge's Court.
First Class Sub-Judge's Court.
Court of the Munsiff, Taluka Kurundwad.
Court of the Munsiff, Taluka Angol.
Court of the Munsiff, Taluka Tikota.
Kurundwad All Civil and Revenue Courts.
(Junior)
Miraj (Senior) High Court.
District Court, Miraj.
Court of the Second Class
Sub-Judge, Miraj.
Court of the Second Class
Sub-Judge, Laxmeshwar.
Court of the Second Class
Sub-Judge, Modnimb.
Miraj (Junior) Huzur Court.
Court of the District Judge.
Court of the Munsiff of Gudguri
Court of the Munsiff of Budhgaon.
Court of the Munsiff of Khandali.
Mudhel Court of the Council of Regency.
High Court.
Court of the District Judge.
Court of the First Class Sub-Judge.
Court of the Second Class Sub-Judge.
Court of the Small Causes Judge.
Phaltan High Court.
Court of the District Judge.
Court of the First Class Subordinate Judge.
Ramdurg Huzur Court.
Court of the District Judge.
Court of the First Class Subordinate Judge.
Court of the Second Class
Subordinate Judge.
Sangli All Civil and Revenue Courts.
Savanur High Court, Savanur.
Court of the District Judge, Savanur.
Court of the First Class Subordinate
Judge, Savanur.
Sawantwadi Huzur Court, Sawantwadi.
High Court (Civil), Sawantwadi.
Court of the Sar Nyayadhish.
Court of the Nyayadhish, Sawantwadi.
Court of the Nyayadhish, Kudal.
8. Madras State Cochin High Court of Cochin, Ernakulam.
District Court (Principal), Anjikaimal.
District Court (Additional), Anjikaimal.
District Court (Principal), Trichur.
District Court (Additional), Trichur.
Munsiff's Court, Chitur.
Munsiff's Court, Cochin.
Munsiff s Court, Cranganur.
Munsiff s Court, Ernakulam.


--- Page 616 ---
High Court Rules and Orders — Vol. IV 87
EE
Munsiff s Court, Irinjalakuda.
Munsiff s Court (Principal), Trichur.
Munsiff s Court (Additional), Trichur.
Munsiff s Court, Vadakkancheri.
Pudukkottai Chief Court, Pudukkottai.

Second Appeals Court, Puddukkotai.
Court of the Registrar and Small Causes
Judge, Chief Court, Pudukkottai.
Court of the Small Cause Judge and
Sub-Registrar, Alangudi.
Court of the Small Cause Judge, and
Sub-Registrar, Annavasal.
Court of the Small Cause Judge and
Sub-Registrar, Karambakudi.
Court of the Small Cause Judge and
Sub-Registrar, Kcelanilai.
Court of the Small Cause Judge and
Sub-Registrar, Keeranur.
Court of the Small Cause Judge and
Sub-Registrar, Perungalur.
Court of the Small Cause Judge and
Sub-Registrar, Ponnamarvathi.
Court of the Small Cause Judge and
Sub-Registrar, Tirumayam.
Court of the Small Cause Judge and
Sub-Registrar, Viralimalai.

Mudras States Travancore High Court of Travancore, Trivandrum.
District Court, Alleppey.
District Court, Kottayam.
District Court, Mavelikar.
District Court, Nagercoil.
District Court, Parur.
District Court, Quilon.
District Court, Trivandrum.
Munsiff s Court (District), Adoore.
Munsiff's Court (Principal), Alleppey.
Munsiff's Court (Additional), Alleppey.
Munsiff's Court (District), Attungal.
Munsiff's Court (Temporary), Attungal.
Munsiff's Court (District), Changancherry.
Munsiff's Court (District), Che.
Munsiff's Court (District), Devicolam.
Munsiff's Court (District), Ettumanur.
Munsiff's Court (District), Haripad.
Munsiff's Court (District), Kanjirapall.
Munsiff's Court (District), Karunagapalli.
Munsiff's Court (District), Kottarakara.
Munsiff's Court (Principal), Kottayam.
Munsiff's Court (Temporary), Kottayam.
Munsiff's Court (District), Kuzhithurai.
Munsiff's Court (District), Mavelikara.
Munsiff's Court (District), Meenachil.
Munsiff's Court (District), Muvattupuzha,
Munsiff's Court (Principal), Nagercoil.
Munsiff's Court (Additional), Nagercoil.
Munsiff's Court, Nedumandgad.


--- Page 617 ---
88 High Court Rules and Orders — Vol. IV

a
Munsiff's Court, Neyyattinkara.
Munsiff's Court (Principal),
Padmanabhapuram.
Munsiff's Court (Additional),
Padmanabhapuram.
Munsiff's Court (District), Parur.
Munsiff's Court (District), Pathanamthitta.
Munsiff's Court (District), Perumbavur.
Munsiff's Court (Principal), Quilon.
Munsiff's Court (Additional), Quilon.
Munsiff's Court (District), Shencottah.
Munsiff s Court (Principal), Shertallai.
Munsiff's Court (Temporary), Shertallai.
Munsiff's Court (District), Thiruvellah.
Munsiff's Court (Temporary), Thiruvellah.
Munsiff s Court (District), Todupuzha.
Munsiff's Court (Principal), Trivandrum.
Munsiff's Court (Additional), Trivandrum.
Munsiff's Court (Temporary), Trivandrum.
Munsiff's Court (District), Vaikom.

9. Mysore Banganapalle Revenue Courts —
Dewan's Court, Banganapalle.
Research Officer's Court,
Banganapalle.
Civil Court
Chief Court of Banganpalle,
Court of the Civil and Sessions Judge,
Banganapalle.
Munsiff's Court, Banganpalle.

Mysore All Civil and Revenue Courts.
Sandar All Civil and Revenue Courts. -

10. Punjab States Bahawalpur High Court of Judicature at
Baghdad-ul-Jadid.
District Judge, Bahawalpur at Bahawalnagar.
District Judge, Rahimyar Khan Bahawalpur.
Additional District Magistrate,
Rahimyar Khan at Ahmadpur East.
Additional District Magistrate, Bahawalpur.
Assistant Commissioner, Bahawalpur.
Assistant Commissioner, Bahawalnagar.
Assistant Commissions, Allahabad.
Assistant Commissioner, Rahimyar Khan.
Munsif, Sadigabad.
Tahsildar, Sadigabad.
Munsiff, Rahimyar Khan,
Tahsildar, Rahimyar Khan.
Munsif, Khanpur.
Tashidar, Khanpur.
Munsiff, Allahabad.
Tahsildar, Allahabad.
Sub-Judge Ahmadpur East.
Tahsildar, Ahmadpur East.
Munsiff, Bahawalpur.
Tahsildar, Bahawalpur.
Munsiff, Chishtian,
Tahsildar, Chishtian.


--- Page 618 ---
High Court Rules and Orders — Vol. IV 89
EE

Munsiff, Bahawalnagar.
Tahsildar, Bahawalnagar.
Munsiff, Minchinabad.
Tahsildar, Minchinabad.
Tahsildar, Fortabbas.

Chamba Chief Court.
Court of the District and Sessions Judge.
Court of the State Vakil at Dalhousie.
Court of the Sub-Judge No. 1.
Court of the Sub-Judge No. 2.
Court of the Sub-Judge No. 3.
Court of the Sub-Judge No. 4.

Dujana The Dewan, Dujana Statp.
The Nazim, Dujana State.
‘The Tahsildar of Dujana.
‘The Tahsildar of Nahar.
Bench of Honorary Magistrates at Nahar.

Faridkot Civil Courts:
Chief Justice, High Court. District Judge,
Senior Sub-Judge.
Junior Sub-Judge.
Revenue Courts:
Chief Justice, High Court.
Judicial and Revenue Secretary.
Revenue Assistant.
Naib-Tahsildar, Kotkapura,
Naib-Tahsildar, Nehianwala.
Naib-Tahsildar, Faridkot
Civil Courts:
Revenue Courts:
Revenue Minister's Court.
Collector's Court.
Tahsildar Sadar's Court.
Tahsildar, Ahmadgarh's Court.

Mandi Civil Courts:
Judge, Tjlas-i-Alin.
Court of Appeal.
Senior Judge, Court of Appeal.
Junior Judge, Court of Appeal.
Sub-Judge and Magistrate, st Class, Sadar.
Treasury Officer (Magistrate, 1st Class
and Sub-Judge, lin Class).
Revenue Assistant (Magistrate, 1st Class and
Sub-Judge, Ind Class).
Honorary Magistrate, IInd Class, and
Sub-Judge, Illrd Class.
Sub-Judge, IInd Class, and Magistrate,
Lst Class, Jogindernagar.
Sub-Judge, 1st Class, and Magistrate,
Lst Class Sarkoghat.
Tahsildar, Sadar (Magistrate, 2nd Class)
Tahsildar, Jogindernagar
(Magistrate, 2nd Class).
Tahsildar, Sarkaghat (Magistrate, 2nd Class).
Tahsildar, Chachiot (Sub-Judge and
Magistrate, 2nd Class)


--- Page 619 ---
9% High Court Rules and Orders — Vol. IV
EEE ————————

Revenue Courts:

Chief Minister's Court.

Revenue Secretary's Court.

Revenue Assistant.

Tahsildar, Sadar.

Tahsildar, Jogindernagar.

Tahsildar, Sarkaghat.

Tahsildar, Chachiot.

Nabha High Court, Nabha.

District and Sessions Judge, Nabha.
Nazim of Amolh, District Nabha.
Nazim of Phul, District Phul.
Nazim of Bawal, District Bawal.

Pataudi High Court and Financial Commissioner
(These powers are exercised by the Ruler).
Dewan exercising the powers of
District Magistrate, Sessions Judge,
Collector and District Judge. 2 Sub-Judges.
Tahsildar.

Patiala Civil Courts:

Minister of law, Patiala. High Court, Patiala.
District and Sessions Judge, Patiala.
District and Sessions Judge, Sunama.
District and Sessions Judge, Bhatindd.
Naib Nazim Dewani, Patiala.

Naib Nazim Dewani, Bassi.

Naib Nazim Dewani, Sunam.

Naib Nazim Dewani, Bamalo.

Naib Nazim Dewani, Bhatinda.

Naib Nazim Dewani, Mansa.

Naib Nazim Dewani, Rajpura.

Naib Nazim Dewani, Bhawanigarh.

Naib Nazim Dewani, Dhuri.

Naib Nazim, Dewani, Narwana.

Naib Nazim Dwani, Narnual.

Revenue Courts:

Revenue Minister, Patiala.

Revenue Commissioner, Patiala.

Nazim, Patiala, District Patiala.

Nazim, Barnala, District Barnala.

Nazim, Sunam, District Sunam.

Nazim, Narnaul, District Narnam.

Nazim Bassi, District Rassi.

Nazim, Kohistan, Kandaghat.

Naib Nazim Mal, Barnala, District Barnala.
Naib Nazim, Mal, Patiala, District Patiala.
Naib Nazim Mal, Sunam, District Sunam.
Tahsildar, Patiala.

Tahsildar, Rajpura.

Tahsildar, Bhawanigarh.

Tahsildar, Sunam.

Tahsildar, Narwana.

Tahsildar, Barnala.

Tahsildar, Bhatinda.

Tahsildar, Mansa.

Tahsildar, Mansa.


--- Page 620 ---
High Court Rules and Orders — Vol. IV 91
a
Tahsildar, Sithind.
Tahsildar, Dhuri.
Tahsildar, Narnaul.
Tahsildar, Kandaghat.
Suket Chief Courts.
District Judge's Court.
Sub-Judge Suket State, Sundamagar.
Tahsildar, Balh, Sundamagar.
Judicial Bench, Suket State.
Unjab Hill States Bilaspur Civil Courts:
jlas-i-Alia.
The Sessions and District Judge's Court.
The Court of the Magistrate, I st Class.
The Court of the Magistrate, 2nd Class.
The Court of the Sub-Judge, 1st Class.
The Court of the Sub-Judge, 2nd Class.
Revenue Courts:
The Revenue Secretary's Court.
The Collector's Court.
The Tahsildar of Suddar's Court.
The Tahsildar of Ghumarvin's Court.
Kalsin Tjlas Khas.
High Court
District and Sessions Court.
Court of the Magistrate, Ist Class,
Chachrauli.
Court of the Magistrate, Ist Class,
Dera Bassi.
Court of the Magistrate, 1st Class, Chirak.
Court of the Sub-Judge, Chachrauli.
Court of the Sub-Judge, Dera Bassi.
Court of the Sub-Judge, Chirak.
Court of the Financial Commissioner.
Court of the Chief Revenue Officer.
Court of the Collector, Chachrauli.
Court of the Collector, Dera Bassi.
Court of the Collector, Chirak.
Court of the Tahsildar, Chachrauli.
Sirmur Raj Niya Sabha.
High Court.
District and Sessions Judge.
Collector and District Magistrate.
Magistrate, Ist Class.
Tahsildar, Ranika.
Tahsildar, Pachhad.
Tahsildar, Paunts.
Tahsildar, Nahan.
Tehri (Garhwal) All Civil Courts of the State through the
Judicial Secretary, Tehri (Garhwal) State.
11. Rajputana:
(i) Eastern Bharatpur All Civil and Revenue Courts.
Rajputana States
Agency
Bundi All Civil and Revenue Courts.
Dholpur All Civil and Revenue Courts.
Jhalawar All Civil and Revenue Courts.


--- Page 621 ---
92 High Court Rules and Orders — Vol. IV
a
Karauli All Civil and Revenue Courts.
Kotah All Civil and Revenue Courts.
(if) Jaipur Agency Alwar All Civil and Revenue Courts.
Jaipur All Civil and Revenue Courts.
Kishangarh All Civil and Revenue Courts.
Shahpur All Civil and Revenue Courts.
Tonk. All Civil and Revenue Courts.
(iii) Mewarand ~~ Banswara All Civil and Revenue Courts.
Southern
Rajputana States
Agency
Dungarpur All Civil and Revenue Courts.
Mewar All Civil and Revenue Courts.
Partabgarh All Civil and Revenue Courts.
(iv) Wester Danta Huzur Court.
Rajputana States
Agency
Dewan's Court,
Naib Dewan's Court.
State Munsiff s Court,
Court of the Munsiff at Shri Mataji.
Court of the Munsiff at Hadad.
Court of the Munsiff at Tarsang,
Court of the Munsiff at Joita
Jaisalmer All Civil and Revenue Courts.
Jodhpur All Civil and Revenue Courts.
Palampur Huzur Court.
Sar Nyayadhish Court.
Palanpur Small Causes Court.
Palanur Diwani.
Nyayadhish Court.
Dess Dhanera Munsiff's Court.
Dhanera Nyayadhish Court.
Panthawada Nyayadhish Court.
Dabela Nyayadish Court.
Bapla Kamdar’s Diwani Court
Sironi All Civil and Revenue Courts.
Bikander All Civil and Revenue Courts.
12. Sikkim Sikkim The Chief Court of sikkims in the
exercise of its civil jurisdiction.
13. Western India
States:
(i) Western India Bhavnagar Darbar Hazur Court, Bhavnagar.
States Agency.
Sar Nyayadhish Court, Bhavnagar.
Joint Sar Nyayadhish Court, Bhavnagar.
City Bhavnagar Diwani Nyayadhish Court,
Bhavnagar.
City Bhavnagar Fouzdari Nyayadhish Court,
Bhavnagar.
City Bhavnagar Honorary Magistrates
Bench Court, Bhavnagar.
Mahuva Nyayadhish Court, Mahuva.
Kundla Nyayadhish Court, Kundla.
Talaja Nyayadhish Court, Talaja.
Lilia Nyayadhish Court, Lilia.


--- Page 622 ---
High Court Rules and Orders — Vol. IV 93
EE
Sihor Nyayadhish Court, Sihor.
Unmrala Nyayadhish Court, Umrala.
Gaghada Nyayadhish Court, Ganghada.
Botad Nyayadhish Court, Botad.
Victor Nyayadhish Court, Rajula.
(i) Western India Huzur Court,
Cutch States Agency

Varisht Jadehja Court.
Varisht Khalsa Court. Bhaj Court.
Mandvi Court.
Mundra Court.
Anjar Court.
Bhachan Court.
Rabpur Court,
Nakhtrana Court.
Abdasa Court.
Lakhpat Court.
Khabada Court.
Khadir Court.
Jakhau Court.
Madh Court.
Court of Small Causes, Bhuj.
Court of Small Causes, Mandvi.
Court of Small Causes, Mundra.
Court of Small Causes, Anjar.
Court of Small Causes, Bhachan.
Court Small Causes, Rahpur.
Court of Small Causes, Abdasa.
Court of Small Causes, Lakhpat.
Court of Small Causes, Nakhtrana.

Dhrangadhra High Court of Judicature,
Dhrangadhra.
District and Sessions Court,
Dhrangadhra,
First Class Sub-Judge's Court, Dhrangadhra.
Second Class Sub-Judge's Court,
Dhrangadhra.
First Class Magistrate, Dhrangadhra.
Second Class Sub-Judge, Halvad.
First Class Magistrate, Halvad.
Second Class Sub-Judge, Rajsitapur.
First Class Magistrate, Rajsitapur.
Court of Small Causes, Dhrangadhra.
Court of Small Causes, Halvad.
Court of Small Causes, Rajsitapur.
Rajprakarni Bhayati Court at Dhrangadhra.
Survey and Settlement Court at
Dhrangadhra.

Dhrol Huzur Court.
Court of the Sar Nyayadhish.
Small Causes Court.
Court of the Nyayadhish Dhorl.
Sarapdad Nyayadhish's Court.

Gondal Huzur Court, Gondal.
Court of the Sar Nyayadhish, Gondal.
Munsiff's Court, Gondal.


--- Page 623 ---
94 High Court Rules and Orders — Vol. IV
a
Munsiff's Court, Dhoraji.
Munsiff s Court, Uplota.
Court of the Diwani Nyayadhish,
Sarsari.
Idar Court of the SAr Nyayadhish.
Jafrabad Court of Mamlatdar and Sub-Judge,
Jafrabad.
Court of Munsiff and Sub-Judge, Jafrabad.
Junadagh Huzur Court, Junagadh.
Sadar Court, Junagadh.
Civil Court, Junagadh.
City Magistrate's Court, Junagadh.
Nageshri Court, Junagadh.
Una Court, Una.
Veraval Court, Veraval.
Malia Court, Malia.
Shil Court, Shil.
Kudana Court, Kutiana.
Vanthali Court, Vanthali.
Bhesan Court, Beshan.
Visavadar Court, Visavadar.
Talala Court, Talala.
Huzur Court, Mangrol.
Nyayadhish Court, Mangrol.
Small Causes Court, Mangrol.
District Judge's Court, Mangrol.
Limbdi” Huzur Court, Limbdi.
Court of Small Causes, Limbdi.
Court of the Sar Nyayadhish, Limbdi.
Munsiff’s Court, Limbdi.
Morvi Huzur Court, Morvi.
Court of the Sar Nyayadhish, Morvi.
Court of the First Class Magistrate, Morvi.
Court of the Dewani Nyayadhish, Morvi.
Small Causes Court, Morvi.
Court of the Nyayadhish, Adhoi.
Nawanagar Nawanagar Judicial Secretary's Court
(High Court), Jamnagar.
Nawanagar Sar Nyayadhish and Sessions
Court, Jamnagar.
Jawanagar Small Causes Court,
Jamnagar.
Nawanagar Nyayadhish Court, Jamnagar.
Nawanagar Joint Nyayadhish Court,
Jamnagar.
The Bhayati Court, Jamnagar.
Nawanagar City First Class Magistrate's
Court, Jamnagar.
Munsiff and First Class Magistrate's Court,
Khambhalia.
Munsiff and First Class Magistrate's Court,
Kalyanpur.
Munsiff and First Class Magistrate's Court,
Bahanvad.
“All summonses for the Courts of this State are to be addressed to the Huzur Court, Limbdi.


--- Page 624 ---
High Court Rules and Orders — Vol. IV 95
EE I Ee ee
Munsiff and First Class Magistrate's Court,
Lalpur.
Munsiff and First Class Magistrate Court,
Jodia.
Munsiff and First Class Magistrate Court,
Kandorna.
Munsiff, Court, Kalvad.
Munsiff’s Court, Atkot.
Palitana Huzur Court, Palitana.
Court of the Sar Nyayadhish, Palitana.
Court of the First Class Magistrate, Palitana.
Small Causes Court, Palitana.
Porbandar Huzur Court, Porbandar.
Court of the Sar Nyayadhish, Porbandar.
Court of the Nyayadhish, Porbandar.
Munsiff’s Court, Porbandar.
Munsiff’s Court, Ranavay.
Munsiff’s Court, Navibander.
Radhanpur Court of the Sar Nyayadhish.
Court of Radhanpur Munsiff.
Court of the Sarni Munjpur Munsiff.
Rajkot Huzur Court.
Court of the Sar Nyayadhish, Rajkot.
Court of the Diwani Nyayadhish, Rajkot.
First Class Magistrate's Court, Rajkot
(which exercises the powers of a Small
Causes Court).
Sardhar Thana Court, Sardhar.
Kuvadva Thana Court, Kuvadva.
Vijaynagar Court of the Sar Nyayadhish,
Vijaynagar.
Wadhwan Huzur Court, Wadhwan.
Court of the Sar Nyayadhish, Wadhwan.
Court of the Nyayadhish, Wadhwan.
Wankaner Huzur Court, Wankaner, Wankaner.
Court of the Sar Nyayadhish, Wankaner.
Court of the Nyayadhish, Wankaner.
Court of Small Causes, Wankaner.
(ii) Saba Kantha ~~ Adesar-Santalpur Court of the Kamdar of Adesar-Santalpur.
Agency Ambaliara Court of Thakor of Ambaliara.
Bolundra Court of Thakor of Bolundra.
Dabha Court of Manager of Dabha.
Dadhalia Court of Manager of Dadhalia.
Deodar, W.S. Court of Waghela Shri Viramsinhji
Viramsinhji’s of Deodar.
Taluka
Deodar, W.S. Court of Waghela Shri Viramsinhji
Viramsinhji’s of Deodar.
Taluka
Dedhrota Court of Thakor of Dedhrota.
Derol Court of Thakor of Derol.
Gabat Court of Thakor of Gabat.
(ii) Sabar Kantha ~~ Ghodasar Court of Thakar of Ghodasar.
Agency
'All summons for the Courts of this State are to be addressed to the Huzur Court, Rajkot.


--- Page 625 ---
9% High Court Rules and Orders — Vol. IV
a
Hapa Court of Thakor of Hapa.
Tol Court of of Manager of Ilol.
Kadoli Court of Thakor of Kadoli.
Katosun Court of Manager of Katosun.
Khadal Court of Thakor of Khadal.
Khedavada Court of Thakor of Khedavada.
Likhi Court of Thakor of Likhi.
Magodi Court of Manager of Magodi.
Malur Court of Raolji of Malpur.
Mansa Court of Raolji of Mansa.
Mohanpur Court of Takor of Mchanpur.
Prempur Court of Thakor of Prempur.
Punadra Court of Thakor of Punadra.
Ramas Court of Thakor of Ramas.
Ranasan Court of Thakor of Ranasan.
Rupal Court of Manager of Rupal.
Sathamba Court of Manager of Sathamba.
Sudasna Courtof Thakor of Sudana.
Tervada Court of the Judicial Kamdar, Tervada.
Thara Court of the Judicial Kamdar, Thara.
Tharad Court of the Manager of Tharad.
Courtof Sar Nyayadhish, Tharad.
Court of Morvada Tahsildar.
Court of the Bhorole Talukar.
Vadagam Court of the Thakor of Vadagam.
Vakhtapur Court of Manager, Vakhtapur.
Valasna Court of Thakor of Valasna.
Varah, Malek Court of Manager, Malek Shri
Shri Husseinyavarkhanji's Taluka,
Husseinyavarkhana Varahi.
ji’s Taluka
Varsoda Court of Thakor of Versoda.
Vasna Court of Thakor of Vasna.
Wao Huzur Court, Wao State.
Court of the Karbhari, Wao.
Court of the Sar Nyayadhish, Wao.
Court of the Nyayadhish, Wao.
(iif) Eastern Anandpur The Court of K.S. Hathia Desa Estac
Kathiawar Agency ~(Kachar Shri Hathia of Anandpur.
Desa)
Anandpur (Khachar Shri The Court of K.S. Dada Jiwa Estate of
Dada Jiwa) Anandpur.
Bajana Huzur Office, Bajana.
First Class Magistrate's Office, Bajana.
Chuda Huzur Court, Chuda.
Court of the Nyayadhish, Chuda.
Lakhtar Court of the Judicial Karbhari, Lakhtar.
Court of the Nyayadhish, Lakhtar.
Court of the Nyayadhish, Than.
Lathi Huzur Court, Lathi.
Court of the Sar Nyayadhish, Lathi.
Court of the Nyayadhish, Lathi.
Muli Huzur Court, Muli.
Court of the Nyayadhish, Muli.
Patdi Huzur Court, Patdi.
Bhayati Court, Patdi.


--- Page 626 ---
High Court Rules and Orders — Vol. IV 97
A
Court of the Sar Nyayadhish, Patdi.
Court of the Nyayadhish, Patdi.
Rai Sankli The Court of the Manager, Rai Sankli
Taluka.
Rajpur The Court of the Talukdar, Rajpur.
Sayla Hazur Court, Sayla,
Court of the Nyayadhish, Sayla.
Sara Thandar Court, Sayla.
Vala Huzur Court, Vala.
Court of the Sar Nyayadhishk, Vala.
Court of the Nyayadhish, Vala.
Vanod The Huzur Court, Vanod.
Court of the Nyayadhish, Vanod.
Vithalgadh Huzur Court, Vithalgadh.
The Court of the First Class Magistrate,
Vithalgadh.
Zainabad The Court of the Talukdar, Zainabad.
Court of the Nyayadhish, Zainabad.
(iv) Western Alidhra Nyayadhish, Alidhra Taluka.
Kathiawar Agency
Anida Nyayadhish, Anida Taluka.
Bagasra (Ram Nyayadhish, Khari Talukar.
Mulu) (Khari).
Bantwa Taluka Nyayadhish, Bantwa Taluka.
Barwala Kamdar, Barwala Taluka
Bhadwa Kamdar, Bhedwa Taluka.
Bhayavadar Manager, Bhayavadar Taluka.
Bilkha Huzur Court, Bilkha.
Court of the Sar Nyayadhish, Bilkha.
Champrajpur Nyayadhish, Champrajpur Taluka.
Dadan Court of K.S. Unad Bhan, Talukdar
of Dadan.
Gadhka Kamdar, Gadhka Taluka.
Gavridad Manager, Gavridad Taluka.
Hadala-Bagasra Nyayadhish, Hadala-Bagasra Taluka.
Jalia Devani Kamdar, Jalia Devani.
Jasdan Huzur Court, Jasdan.
Court of the Sar Nyayadhish, Jasdan.
Court of the Nyayadhish, and First Class
Magistrate, Jasdan.
Jatpur Sar Nyayadhish, and Nyayadhish,
Jatpur State.
Khijadia Manager, Khijadia Talukgt.
Khirasara Nyayadhish, Sar Nyayadhish and
Huzur Court, Khirasara State.
Kotda-Pitha Majmu Nyayadhish, Kotda-Pitha Taluka.
Huzur Court, Kotda-Sangani.
Karbohari Court, Kotda-Sangani.
Court of the Nyayadhish, Kotda-Sangani.
Kotharia Talukdar of Kotharia Taluka.
Lodhika (TS. Mulwaji Estate, Lodhika Taluka.
Mulwaji).
Lodhika (TS. Vijaysinhji Estate, Lodhika Taluka.
Vijaysinhji).
Malia Nyayadhish, Malia State.
Manavadar Huzur Court, Manavadar.


--- Page 627 ---
98 High Court Rules and Orders — Vol. IV
a
Court of the Sar Nyayadhish, Manavadar.
Court of the Nyayadhish, Manavadar.
Manpur Nyayadhish and First Class Magistrate
Court of the Nyayadhish, Manpur Taluka.
Mayapadar Court of the Nyayadhish,
Maynpadar Taluka.
Mengani Second Class Magistrate, Mengani Taluka.
Nadala Talukdar, Nadala Taluka.
Natwarnagar Nyayadhish, Natwarnagar Taluka.
Pal Talukdar, Pal Taluka.
Rajpara Kamdar, Rajpara Taluka.
Sanala Manager, Sanala Taluka.
Sardargadh Nyayadhish, Sardargadh.
Sardarpur Nyayadhish Sardarpur.
Shahpur Shahpur Taluka.
Thana-Devli Huzur Court, Thana-Devli State.
Court of the Nyayadhish, Thana-Devi State.
Thumbala Nyayadhish, Thumbala Taluka.
Vadia Huzur Court, Vadia State.
Court of the Sar Nyayadhish, Vadia.
Vasavad Majmu Nyayadhish, Vasavad.
Virpur Huzur Court, Virpur.
Court of the Sar Nyayadhish, Virpur.
(ii) GOVERNMENT OF INDIA, —- LEGISLATIVE DEPARTMENT
Notification No. F. 202/4/l/41-C. & G. (JudL), dated the 20th February, 1942
“In pursuance of Clause (b) of Rule 26 of Order V of the First Schedule to the Code of
Civil Procedure, 1908 (Act V of 1908), the Central Governemnt is pleased to declare that service
by any Civil Court specified in the Schedule annexed to the Notification of the Governemnt of
india in the Legislative Department No. F.202/4/I/41-C. & G. (JudL), dated the 20th Feruary,
1942 of any summons issued under the said Code by a Court of any Chief Commissioner's
Province shall be deemed to be valid service.”
'.Summonses for service in the Hyderabad State shall be forwarded to the city Civil Court and District Civil Courts only.


--- Page 628 ---
High Court Rules and Orders — Vol. IV 99
—
“(a) For Punjab Province”

“PUNJAB GOVERNEMNT, — POLITICAL DEPARTMENT/GENERAL.”
Notification No. 1191-P.G. 42-25398, dated the 22nd April, 1942, as subsequently amended by
Punjab Government Notifications mentioned in Statement B annexed hereto.

“In pursuance respectively of the proviso to Section 29 and of Clause (b) of Rule 26
of Order V of the First Schedule to the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (Act V of 1908), the
Governor of the Punjab is pleased to declare: ---

(1) that the provision of Section 29 of the said Code shall apply to tAe Courts specified in
the Schedule annexed; and

(2) that service by any Civil Court specified in the said Schedule of any summons issued
under the said Code by a Court in the Punjab shall be deemed to be valid service.”

Note: The Schedule for the Punjab Provinces is the same as is annexed to the
Governmentof India.-Legislative Department, Notification No. F-202/4/1/41-C. & G (Judi.),
dated the 20th February, 1942 as subsequently amended by notifications mentioned in statement
A annexed hereto).

STATEMENT A
(See item 12(i) of this Appendix and item (a)(i) of the First Schedule)
GOVERNMENT OF INDIA,-LEGISLATIVE DEPARTMENT
NOTIFICATAIONS
[6] No. F.-202/4/41-C. & G. (Judi.), dated 15th June, 1942.
(2 No. F.-202/4/41-C. & G. (Judi), dated 18th July, 1942.
3 No. F.-202/4/41-C. & G. (Judi.), dated 24th November, 1942.
[©] No. F.-202/4/43-C. & G. (Judi.), dated 19th April, 1943.
(5 No. F.-202/4/43-C. & G. (Judi.), dated 14th May, 1943.
STATEMENT B
(See item 12(ii) of this Appendix and item (b) of the First Schedule)
PUNJAB GOVERNMENT,-POLITICAL DEPARTMENT
GENERAL NOTIFICATAIONS
(1) No. 3227-611-S.-PG-42/40798, dated 18th July, 1942.
(2) No. 3790-PG-42/48039, dated 3rd September, 142 as corrected by Notification
No. 5059-PG-42/58088, dated 23rd October, 1942.
(3) No. 6657-PG-42/1674, dated 9th January, 1943.
(4) No. 2729-PG-43/36016, dated 8th June, 1943.
(5) No. 3507-PG-43/40864, dated 5th July, 1943.
SECONDSCHEDULE
(See item 13 of this Appendix)
STATE OF JOHORE (MALAY)
District Court held at


--- Page 629 ---
100 High Court Rules and Orders — Vol. IV
—
1. Johore Baliru Johore Bahra.
2. Muar Bandar Maharani, Muar.
3. Batu Pohat Bandar Penggaram, Batu Pohat.
4. Kuang... Kuang.
5. Scgamat... Segamat.
6. Kota Tinggi Kota Tinggi.
7. Mersing ... Mersing,
8. Pontian ... Pontain.
9. Tangkak (Muar) .... Tangkak.


--- Page 630 ---
High Court Rules and Orders — Vol. IV 101
————
CHAPTER 8
PROCESSES — CRIMINAL COURTS
A — ISSUE AND SERVICE OR SUMMONS

1. Signing of summons.—Every summons in a Criminal case should be signed legibly
and in full by the Magistrate by whom it is issued, with the name of his office or the capacity in
which he acts. The practice of signing initials only or of using a stamp is objectionable and
should not be adopted.

2. Regarding service of summons in non-cognizable cases.—In Criminal cases which
are not cognizable by the Police, within the meaning of Section 4, clause (f) of the Code of
Criminal Procedure, summonses are to be served through the civil process-serving establishment
attached to the Courts. District Magistrates shall see that the prescribed fee is duly paid in such
cases.

3. Fee of eight annas to be paid for such process.—Rules under the Court-Fees Act,
1870, for the realization of process fees, will be found in Chapter 5, “Process Fees”. Under
Rule 5 of the Rules in Part B of that chapter, a fee of eight annas is to be levied for each process
issued in every non-cognizable case, that is, in every case in which the Police may not arrest
without a warrant according to the Second Schedule of the Code of Criminal Procedure. By the
Notification of the Punjab Government No. 314 of the 21st March, 1883, issued under Section
68 of the Code, every Criminal summons for the service of which a fee is levied under rules
made by the High Court under the Court-Fees Act, shall be served by the process-serving
establishment of the Court issuing the summons.

4. Service of summons sent by a Court to a place outside its jurisdiction.—(a) Under
Section 73 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, a summons issued by a Court for service at any
place outside the local limits of its jurisdiction should ordinarily be sent in duplicate to a
Magistrate within the local limits of whose jurisdiction to person summoned resides or is to be
there served. In special cases, however, e.g., when particular urgency in service is required the
Courts may subject to the general or special orders issued by him, permit the prosecuting agency
to send summons direct by registered post, acknowledgment due, to the police station
concerned.

(6) When the summons has to be sent for service from a Court to any district, the
vernacular of which differs from that in which the process is written, it should be accompanied
by a translation in English.

5. Affidavits by Police Officers and process-servers who serve summons.—Attention
is invited to the provisions of Section 74 of the Code of Criminal Procedure which makes an
affidavit of service admissible in evidence in certain cases. When the Police serve a summons
outside the local limits of the jurisdiction of the Court from which it issued, and in all cases in
which it is probable that the Police Officer who serves a summons will not be present at the
hearing of the case, the Police Officer, who has served such summons should make an affidavit
in the form given below before the nearest Magistrate. The affidavit, and a duplicate of the
summons endorsed in the manner provided by Section 69 or Section 70 of the Code, should then
be forwarded to the Court, which issued the summons.

(ii) The same procedure will be observed by process-servers in regard to criminal
processes in similar circumstances.

(iii) Printed forms of the affidavits mentioned above wil be provided. These should be
supplied to all officers in charge of Police Stations.

(iv) Magistrates must not detain Police Officers and process servers, who attend their
Courts merely to make affidavits, longer than is necessary for that purpose.


--- Page 631 ---
102 High Court Rules and Orders — Vol. IV
————
Declaration of service of summons

I son of do hereby solemnly declare that 1 did
on the day of serve son of
of with the summons now shown to me and marked A, by delivering (or
tendering) a duplicate to him [or, by leaving a duplicate for him with an adult male
member of his family residing with him or by affixing duplicate to a conspicuous part of his
house or homestead].
(Signed)
Declared before me at by this, day
of 19 .

6. Instructions re-issue of summons for particular class of persons.—The following
instructions are issued with regard to the issue of summons for particular classes of persons: --

() Government servants generally. —When the person summoned is in the active service
of Crown, the Court or Magistrate issuing the summons should in accordance with the
provisions of Section 79 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, ordinarily send it duplicate, to the
head of the office in which the person summoned is employed, who will cause the summons to
be served on the person named therein. This rule applies to every summons issued under the
Code (Section 93).

(ii) Bodies corporate.—When the summons has to be served on an Incorporated Company
or other body corporate, such as a Municipal Committee, service may be effected by serving the
summons on the Secretary, Local Manager or other principal office of the Corporation, or by
registered post letter addressed to the chief officer of the Corporation in British India. In such
cases the service should be deemed to have been effected when the letter would arrive in
ordinary course of post (vide Section 69(3) of the Code of Criminal Procedure).

(iii) Soldiers in military employ. —When a Criminal Court issues a summons for the
appearance of a soldier in military employ, the summons should be sent for service to the
Officer Commanding the Regiment in which such soldier is serving. The provisions of Section
72 of the Code of Criminal Procedure are wide enough to include persons in military employ;
and whenever it is necessary to summon an officer or soldier or other person in military employ,
the summons should always be sent for service to the head of the Office or Head of Department
or Officer Commanding the of regiment in which such officer, soldier or other person is
serving, unless there are special reasons, which should be recorded, for proceeding otherwise.

(iv) Railway officials.—(a) Persons in the active service of any Railway Company or
Administration are subject to the same rules regarding the issue of summons as Crown servants
(see (i) above).

(b) Considerable inconvenience results from the indiscriminate summoning of the
superior officers of the Railway to give evidence on points of railway practice, customs, orders
&c., which could equally well be done by subordinate Railway officials at or near the place
where the trial is being held, and subordinate Courts should in the exercise of their discretion
abstain from requiring the attendance of the Manager or other high officials of the Railway,
except in special cases in which their evidence is absolutely necessary.

(c) To assist the Courts in summoning the subordinate officials who would most probably
be able to give the evidence required with the smallest inconvenience to the Railway a list of the
superior officers under whose immediate orders the Railway subordinates are, is given in the
Appendix to this order, and, except where a strict adherence to this rule would cause delay or
inconvenience, all processes for the attendance of any subordinate official should ordinarily be
served through his immediate superior.


--- Page 632 ---
High Court Rules and Orders — Vol. IV 103
————
(v)  Police.—Whenever a summons is issued to an officer of Police to appear as witness it
should be served upon such officer through the Superintendent of Police, or, in the case of an
outpost, the Assistant or Deputy Superintendent in charge of the outpost to which the individual
summoned may belong.

(vi) Medical Officers.—The following instructions regarding the summoning of Medical

Officers and their subordinates to give evidence in criminal cases should be observed:---
[6] On all summonses intended for service on officials of the Medical Department it
should be stated whether the official concerned is being called to give evidence as an expert, or
to give evidence in a case with which he has had to deal in the ordinary course of his duties as a
Medical Officer.

[6] Summonses for medical officers and subordinates in cases in which their evidence as
experts is not required, whether the Court is in their own district or not, should be
forwarded to the Civil Surgeon concerned for service.

(ii) Notice should be given to the Inspector-General of Civil Hospitals whenever a
summons has been issued to a medical man in civil employ under the Punjab
Government to give evidence as an expert outside his district.

(iii) The evidence of medical officers under orders of transfer should, wherever possible,
be taken before they hand over charge. With this object in view, the Inspector-
General of Civil Hospitals has been requested to communicate to the District
Magistrates information about impending transfers of medical officers as soon as
orders are received in his office. When the orders are so communicated, the
Magistrates of the district, the Superintendent of Police, and the medical officer
concerned should be consulted and the evidence of the medical officer in pending
cases should be recorded, so far as it may be practicable, before he hands over
charge. For the remaining cases, in which it would be necessary for the medical
officer to return in order to give his evidence, effort should be made to fix one or two
suitable days for the evidence being recorded by all the Courts concerned, so as to
avoid the necessity of frequent trips to the district for that purpose.

(High Court Circular letter No. 1417-RIXXV-5, dated the 18th February, 1942).

(vii) Consuls-General.—When it is necessary to summon certain Consuls-General residing
in or visiting the Punjab to give evidence in a criminal case, the summons should issue in the
form of a letter. The form of summons given in Form XXXI of Schedule V attached to the Code
of Criminal Procedure will be used, except that it will begin and end as a letter, and the body of
the letter need not be so abrupt as the form itself is.

Before summoning a Consular Officer whose office is at a distance from the Court,
the Magistrate should consider the possibility of taking evidence on commission as provided by
Section 503 of the Code of Criminal Procedure.

This privilege should be confined to the Consuls-General of Aghanistan, Persia,
America, Holland, Germany, Japan and Italy. Other consular officers may continue to be
summoned in the inary way.

PART B — PREPARATION OF ISSUE OF WARRANTS OF ARREST AND OTHER

PROCESSES

1. General warrants.—General warrants for arrest should never be issued by a Court of
Justice.

2. Prescribed form of warrants which should state the special cause on which it is
granted.—Every warrant should state as shortly as possible the special matter on which it s, and


--- Page 633 ---
104 High Court Rules and Orders — Vol. IV
————
should be in the Form II given in Schedule V of the Code of Criminal Procedure. This form
expresses on the face of it the special cause on which it is granted, viz., that the party ‘stands
charged with the offence of (stating the offence)’. A warrant issued under Section 90 should in
like manner be made out in Form VII. A strict adherence to the form of warrants of arrest
prescribed by the Code will tend to prevent their being granted irregularly and without inquiry
as to whether the circumstances justify their issue.

3. ‘What a warrant or process should contain.—In all warrants and processes of every
description, whether under the Code of Criminal Procedure or any other law in force, the
father’s name, caste, tribe or nationality, and residence of the person to be arrested, summoned,
etc., should be entered, so as to place his identity beyond all doubt. The warrant should also set
forth the Court from which it issues, and the name of the district.

4. Care to be exercised in distinguishing forms of warrants and summons.—(i) Great
care should be exercised in distinguishing forms of warrants forms of summons, and in making
the Police and the public acquainted with the difference, different tinted paper and lithographed
or printed forms should always be used. The people of the country will gradually become
familiar with the appearance of each sort of process and know how to act.

(ii) All vernacular warrants of commitment to jail should be drawn up in the Roman
character, except in the case of Indian Magistrates who are unable to read this character, and
ordinary country ink should never be used in filing up the blanks in the printed form of warrant,
or in warrants drawn up upon English paper.

5. A warrant should not be issued where a summons can serve the purpose.—Great
care should also be taken that a warrant, which always implies personal arrest and restraint, is
never issued when a summons to attend would be sufficient for the ends of justice; and any
attempt to coerce or restrain a party called upon to appear in obedience to a summons should be
checked and punished. It must be understood that the Police will carry out to the latter the
instructions issued in the writ handed over to them, but the Magistrate is responsible for the
consequences of an informal on illegal process bearing his official seal and signature.

6. Service of warrants on Railway servants.—Warrants issued against Railway
servants should be entrusted for execution to some Police Officer of superior warrant, that the
immediate arrest of the Railway servant would occasion risk or inconvenience, make all
arrangements necessary to prevent escape, and apply to the proper quarter to have the accused
relieved, deferring arrest until he is relieved.

71. Execution of a warrant outside the jurisdiction of the Court.—Under Section 83(1)
of the Code a warrant to be executed outside the local limits of the jurisdiction of the Court
issuing it, may be forwarded by post of otherwise to the Superintendent of Police of the district
in which it is to be executed. Similarly, by Section 85, an offender when arrested may be taken
before the Superintendent of Police instead of a Magistrate, and by Section 56, the
Superintendent of Police may send the offender to the Court issuing the warrant.

8. ‘Warrants under the Gambling Act.—Every warrant issued under the Gambling Act,
1867 if not executed, shall be returned to the Magistrate or Superintendent of Police, who issued
it, within a period of not more than fifteen days from the date of issue. The Magistrate or
Superintendent of Police will then cancel the warrant, but a fresh warrant can immediately be
applied for or issued, if necessary (Chief Court circular memo. No. 9-1970-G, dated the 4th
June, 1896).

9. Handcuffing of prisoners.—The orders of Government regarding the handcuffing of
prisoners are that unless a prisoner falls within classes (b) to (f) of clause (1) of rule 26/23,
Punjab Police Rules, or is accused of murder, he should not be handcuffed on his way to an
from the lock-up to the Court house, unless the officer-in-charge of the escort decided to
handcuff him owing to his being:


--- Page 634 ---
High Court Rules and Orders — Vol. IV 105
————
(a) aman who is likely to attempt an escape, or
(b) aman who, owing to the existence of local feeling or other circumstances, is likely to
be the subject of an attempt at rescue.
It is not desirable to handcuff and under-trial prisoner, who is charged only under
Section 124-A or 153-A of the Indian Penal Code, unless the officer-in-charge of the escort has
definite reasons for delivering that such prisoner is likely to attempt to escape or to be the
subject of an attempt at rescue.
Note: Classes (b) to (£) of clause (1) of the Punjab Police Rules 26/23 as follows: --
(b) Persons accused of, an offence punishable under Section 148 or 226, Indian Penal
Code.

(c) Persons accused of, and previously convicted of, such an offence as to being the case

under Section 75, Indian Penal Code.

(d) Desperate characters.

(e) Violent Persons.

(f) Persons under sentence.

PART C — ATTENDANCE AS WITNESSES AND EVIDENCE OF PERSONS RESIDING
BEYOND THE LIMITS OF BRITISH INDIA

1. Warrant for the arrest of a witness outside British India.—The issue of warrants
for the arrest beyond the limits of British India of persons whose attendance is required to give
evidence, but who are at the time resident beyond the limits of British India, is illegal and should
not be resorted to, as warrants for the arrest of a witness can, under Section 82 of the Code of
Criminal Procedure, only be executed at some place in British India.

2. Letter or summons for the attendance of a witness residing in Indian State. —
There is, however, no objection to the issue of a letter or precept of the nature of a summons to
a person resident in the dominions of any of the Princes and States in India in alliance with His
Majesty, inviting him to attend and give evidence, where there is an established channel of
communication in the person of a Political Agent or other similar officer, through whom the
letter can be sent with the prospect of prompt delivery.

3. If the witness does not comply, commission may be issued to the Political Officer
to record evidence.—If the person whose attendance is required does not comply with the
directions contained in the letter, no further steps to compel him to appear can be taken. But if
his evidence is shown to be necessary for the ends of justice, a Commission to take it may be
issued under Section 503 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, to the officer representing the
British Indian Government in the State or place where the person is residing. If there is no such
officer, the case must be decided without the testimony of such person.

4. Commission to issue only when evidence is indispensable. —Officers presiding over
Criminal Courts are reminded that criminal proceedings ought not to be unduly prolonged for
the attendance as witnesses of persons whose attendance the Courts are not competent to compel
if they fail to attend voluntarily, and that the discretionary power to issue a Commission for the
examination of an absent witness should be exercised only when the evidence appears to be
indispensable. When a Commission is refused, the grounds for refusal should be briefly
recorded to anticipate subsequent objections on the ground of such refusal.

5. Reciprocal arrangement between British Indian Court and certain Courts In
Indian State for the direct service of summons against witnesses.—The Provincial


--- Page 635 ---
106 High Court Rules and Orders — Vol. IV
———
Government have sanctioned the introduction of reciprocal arrangements for the direct service of
summonses for the attendance of witnesses in criminal cases between Courts in British districts
on the one hand and those in the following Indian States on the other: --

Patiala, Jind, Kapurthala, Faridkot, Maler Kotla, Loharu, Bahawalpur, Nabha,

Sirmur, Bilaspur, Chamba, Mandl, Suket and Bikaner.

Note: Summonses foritnesses in Kapurthela State should be sent direct to the Senior
Judge, High Court Kapurthala and not to the Chief Minister Kapurthala State.

6. Reciprocal arrangements between British Indian Courts and certain Courts in
Indian States for the direct service of summons against witnesses.—The Central Government
have also agreed to the introduction of similar arrangements for the direct service of processes
(summonses and notices to witnesses in Criminal cases) between the Gurgaon District and the
Patiala and Nabba States on the one hand and the Jaipur, Bharatpur and Alwar States on the
other.

71. Communications with the Indian States in the Punjab re criminal cases.—In
Criminal cases in which communications have to be made with Indian States in the Punjab under
the political control of the Crown Representative, such communications should be addressed
through the Deputy Commissioner to the Hon'ble the Resident for the Punjab States.
Communications with the Kashmir Darbar should be made through the Resident.

8. Summonses to witnesses in Afghanistan not to issue.—The Punjab Courts should,
in no case, address Afghanistan Courts or officials or the British authorities in Kabul direct.
There is no agency in Afghanistan for the service of summonses on witnesses issued by the
Punjab Courts and it is, therefore, useless to issue such summonses.

Serious notice will be taken of the violation of these instructions as the continued
recurrence of such cases causes much embarrassment to the Government of India.

Summons to members of the staff of British Legation.—In connection with the
issue of summonses for members of the staff of the British Legation at Kabul, His Majesty’s
Minister at Kabul has drawn the attention of the Government of India to the difficulties caused to
the personnel of the British Legation by the receipt of summonses from Courts in the Punjab
which do not take into account the difficulties of business which may be caused in the Legation
of its members are suddenly summoned to attend Courts in India at short notice. These
difficulties should, therefore, be borne in mind when it is found necessary to issue summonses to
the members of the staff of the Legation in Kabul and care should be taken to fix a sufficiently
long date so as to avoid any inconvenience and to enable service to be effected through the
proper channel before the date fixed.

9. Service of summons in Balochistan.—Balochistan—The instructions regarding
service of summonses in Balochistan given in paragraph 5 of Part F of Chapter 7, and in
Appendix III to that Chapter, apply also to Criminal Courts.


--- Page 636 ---
High Court Rules and Orders — Vol. IV 107
a
APPENDIX
LIST OF NORTH-WESTERN RAILWAY OFFICIALS TO WHOM SUMMONSES
SHOULD ORDINARILY BE ADDRESSED
Statement showing designation of Heads of Offices of Operating, Locomotive and Engineering
Departments through whom summonses are to be served

Head of Office Officers through | Staff employed under cach
whom summon shuld
be served

1. | Sub-Divisional Sub-Divisional Permanent way Inspectors, Assistant
Officers:--- Officers of these | Permanent Way Inspectors, Sub-way
Nowshehra, places. Inspectors, Inspectors of Works, Sub-
Cambellpur, Inspectors of works, Overseers,
Jhelum, Time-Keepers, Sub-Divisional clerks,
Rawalpindi, Ballast Inspectors,  Mistries,
Kundian, Carpenters, Masons, Blacksmiths,
Malakwal, Mates, Keyman, Gangmen, Gatemen,
Sargodha, Sanitary Inspectors, Chowkidars.
Kalabagh Ghat,

Kohat, Cantonment,

2. | Loco, Foreman of:— | Loco, foremen of | Drivers, Shunters, Firemen, Pump
Lalamusa, these places. Inspectors, Shedmen, Shed Clerks,
Malakwal, Fuel Clerks, School Masters, Fitters,
Kundian, Boiler Makers, Cleaners, Fitter,
Peshawar Coolies, Boiler Maker Coolies, Store
Cantonment, Cler, Carpenters, Blacksmiths,
Rawalpindi, Painters, Masons, Washout Coolies
Kalabagh Ghat, Fire Droppers, Fuel ~Coolies,
Kohat Cantonment. Hammermen, Telephone  Attedants

and Chowkidars.

3. | Staton Master of | Station Masters of | Station Masters, Assistant Station
Peshawar these places. Masters, Signallers, Booking Clerks,
Cantonment--- Goods Clerks, Transit Clerks, Yard
Peshawar Formen, Yard Masters, Assistant
Cantonment, Yard Masters, Trains Despatchers,
Peshawar City, Luggage Inspectors, Platform
Nowshehra, Inspectors, Correspondence Clerks,
Mardan, Makers, Guards, 2nd Guards,
Jhelum, Brakesman,  Cabinmen, ~ Shunting
Lalamusa, Jamadars, Shunting Porters, Pilot
Malakwal, Jamadars, Points  Jamabdars,
Kundian, Gatemen, Luggage Porters,
Kalabagh Ghat and Signalmen, Waiting Room Staff,
Station Telegraph Peons and Station Peons,
Superintendent of Sweepers and Chowkidars.
Rawalpindi

4. | Ferry Engineer ofi— | Ferry Engineers of | Syrang, Quarter-masters, Tindais,
Kalabagh Ghat and | these places. Oilmen, Pilots, Khalasis, Stockers,


--- Page 637 ---
108 High Court Rules and Orders — Vol. IV
ae HEE Cun SE ———
I a I ei

5. | Head Train | Head Train | Train examiners, Number Takers,
Examiner of:-- | Examiners of these | Carriage Clerks, Store Clerks,
Peshawar places. Vacuum Fitters Brass fitters,
Cantonment, Carpenters, Blacksmiths, ~Paintes,
Lalamusa, Wheelmen, ~ Re-packers, Carriage
Kalabagh ~~ Ghat, Cleaners, Bhishties, Sweepers and
Rawalpindi. Chowkidars.

Divisional Divisional Electricians, Electric Examiners,
Electrician, Electrician, Assistant Electric Examiners, Electric
Rawalpindi Rawalpindi Collies and Number Takers.

7. | Block Inspector, | Block Inspector, | Black Maintainers, Semior Mistries,

Rawalpindi. Rawalpindi. Junior Mistries, ~~ Battterymen,
Linemen, Blacksmiths, Hammermen,
Painters, Masons and Cleaners.

Signal and | Signal and | Ditto Ditto

interlocking Interlocking

Inspector, nspector,

Rawalpindi Rawalpindi.

1. | Sub-Divisional Sub-divisional Permanent way inspectors and
Officers:-- Officers of these | Inspectors of Works, Sub-way
No.1, Lahore, places. Inspectors of works, Oerseers, Time-
No.2, Narowal, Keepers, ~~ Mistries, Carpenters,
No.3, Amritsar, Keymen, Gangmen, Gatemen, Mates,
No.4, Moghalpura, Sub-Engineers, Surveyors and
No.5 Lahore, Sanitary Inspectors.

No.6, Stores,
Lahore,

No.7, Wazirabad,
No.8 Palampur.

2. | Loco, Foreman of: | Loco, foreman and | Driverss,  Shunters, Firemen,
Lahore, Shedmen incharge of | Shedmen, Fuel Munshis, School
Pathankot. these placs. Masters, Fitters and Fitter Coolies,

Store Munshies and Shed Menial
Staff, Shed Clerks.

3. Station Station Masters at | Station Masters, Assistant Station
Superintendent, these placs. Masters, Signaliers, Goods, Clerks,
Lahore. Trains Clerks, Transit Clerks,
Station Master of: Booking Clerks, Parcel Clerks, Ticket
Amritsar, Collectors, Phone Clerks,
Jullundur, Correspondence Clerks, Yard
Wazirabad, Foremen, ~~ Chaukidars, ~ Shunting
Sialkot, Jamadars, ~~ Shunting Porters,
Gujranwala, Chairmen, Signal and Pointsmen,
Kasur, Luggage Porters, Gatemen, Waiting
Gujrat, Room Staff, Running Room Staff,
Moghalpura Guards and 2nd Guards, Gunners,


--- Page 638 ---
High Court Rules and Orders — Vol. IV 109

EE ee

Lahore Cantonment, Markers, Telegraph Peons and Station

Raewind, Peons.

Okara,

Pathankot,

Batala,

Jullundur

Cantonment,

Badamibagh,

Jammu Tawi,

Shahdara

Chhangamanga,

Gurdaspur,

Pattoki,

Phagwara.

4. | Black Inspector of:-— | Black and | Block maintainers, Senior and Junior
No.1, Lahore Interlocking Mistries, ~ Carpenters, ~ Linemen,
No.2, Lahore. Inspectors of these | Batterymen, Trellymen, Cleaners,

places. Painters, ~~ Gatemen, Masons,
Hammermen, Bhishties, Blacksmith,
Signal and interlock:- Time-Keeper.
No.1, Lahore.
No. 2, Lahore
Assistant Block
Inspector: ---
No.1, Amritsar.

5. | Goods Supervisors | Goods Supervisors of | Goods clerks, Makers and Chaukidar
oft-—n these Places. in Lahroe and Amritsar goods sheds.
Lahore,

Amritsar.

Head Train Head Train | Train Examiners, Number Takers,
Examiner of:-—- Examiners at these | Storemen, ~Wheelmen, Cleaners,
Lahore, places. Wrenchmen, Greasers, Hammermen,
Washing Line, Carpenters, Blacksmiths and Bhisties.
Lahore,

Mughalpura,

Wazirabad,

Amritsar,

Pathankot.

7. | Divisional Divisional Electricians, Electric Examiners,
Electrician, Lahore. | Electrician Assistant Electric Examiners, Electric

Coolies and Number Takers.

1. | Sub-Divisional Sub-Divisional Permanent way Inspectors, Sub-way
officers i | officers of these | Inspectors, Sub-Inspectors of Works,
Multan, places. Overseers, TimeKeepers, Ministries,
Lyallpur 1 Carpenters, ~ keymen, ~ Gangmen,
Lyallpur 2 Gatemen, Mates, Sub-Engineers,
Shorkot Road, Surveyors and Sanitary Inspectors.


--- Page 639 ---
110 High Court Rules and Orders — Vol. IV
uae HEE Cu SE ——
I Cc I

2. | Locomotive foreman | Locomotive Foremen | Drivers,  Shunters, foremen,
of: at these places. Shedmen, Fuel munshis, School
Multan, Masters, Fitters and Fitter coolies,
Samasatta Store Munshies and Shed Menial
Khanewal, Staff.

Montgomery.
Shedman incharge
of:

Shorkot road,
Bhakkar,
Locomotive
Foreman, Lyallpur.

3. | Train Examiner: | Head Train | Train Examiners, Number Takers,
Multan, Examiners at tehse | Storemen,  Wheelmen, Cleaners,
Samasatta, stations. Wrenchmen, Greasers, Hammermen,
Khanewal, Carpenters, Blacksmiths and
Montgomery, Bhisities.

Lyallpur,
Shorkot Road.
4. | Station master of:— | Station masters at | Station Masters, Assistant Station
Multan, these places. Masters, Signalers, Train Clerks,
Multan city, Transit Clerks, Booking Clerks,
Khanewal, Parcel Clerks, Ticket Collectors,
Samasatta, Phone Clerks, Correspondence
Lyallpur, Clerks, Yard Foremen, Chowkidars,
Sangla Hill. Shunting Jamadars, Shunting Porters,
Cabinmen, Signal and Pointsmen,
Luggage Porters,  Gatemen,
Sweepers, Watermen, Waiting room
Staff, Running Room Staff, Guards,
makers, Telegraph Peons and Station
Peons.

Yard master of:

Samasatta.

5. | Divisional Divisional Electricians, Electric Examiners,

Electrician, Multan. | Electrician Assistant Electric Examiners, Electric
Coolies and Number Takers.

Sub-Divisional Offier | Sub-Divisional Permanent Way Inspectors, Sub-way

ofr Officer of these | Inspectors, Inspectors of Works Sub-

Ferozepur, palces. Inspectors of Works, Overseers

Kasur, Works Celrks, Mistries, Carpenters,

Ludhiana, keymen, Gangmen, Mates, Surveyors

Jullunder, and Sanitary Inspectors.

Mailsi,

Bahawalnagar.


--- Page 640 ---
High Court Rules and Orders — Vol. IV 111
EE  ]

2. | Assistan Signal | Assistant Signal | Block Inpectors, Sub-Assistant Block

Enginer, Ferozepur | Engineer. Inspector, Assistant Signal and
Interlocking Inspector, Sub-Assistant
Interlocking Inspectors, ~~ Time-
keepers, Mistis, Carpenters, Painters,
Blacksmiths, Hammermen, Fitters,
Coolies, Cleaners, ~~ Batterymen,
Linemen, Trollymen, Khalasis.

3. | Loco. Foreman of:— | Loco. Foremen at | Drivers,  Shunters, Firemen,
Ludhiana, these places. Shedmen, Fuel Munshies, School
Ferozepur, Masters Fitter and Fitter Collies,
Jullunder, Store Munshis, Shed Menial Staff.
Bahawalnagar,

Pakpattan.

4. | Head Train Head Train | Train Examiners, Number Takers,
Examiner of:--- Exdamienrs at these | Storemen, Wheelman, Cleaners,
Ferozepur, places. Wrenchmen, Greasers Hammermen,
Jullunder, Carpenters, Blacksmiths and Bhisties
Hissar, and Box porters.

Bahawalnagar.
5. | Divisional inspector, | Divisional Inspector | Box porters.
Powers: ~ Loco. Ferozepur.
(Fuel) “S” Pumps, Ferozepur.
(Fule) “N” Rolling Stock,
Pumps. Ferozepur.
rolling Stock.
Traffic Inspectors | Taffic Inspectors at | Shunnting  Jamadars,  Pointsmen,
oft these places. Cabinmen, Shunting Poters.
Ferozepur,
Pakpattan,
Jullunder,
Bahawalnagar,
Ludhiana

7. | Train Light Trian Lighting | Electricians, Electric Examiners,
Electrician, Electrician, Assistatn Electric Coolies and
Ferozepur. Ferozepur. Number Takers.

Stations Master of: | Statiosn Master at | Station Masters, Assistant Station
Ferozepur these places. Masters, Signalers, Goods Clerks,
Cantonment, Transit Clerks, Booking Clerks,
Ferozepur City, Parcel  Cloerks, Correspondence
Bahawalnagar- clerks, Yard Foremen, Shuntign
MecLeod Ganj Road, Jamadarss, ~~ Shunting Porters,
Abohar, Cabinmen, Signal and Pointsmen,
Lohian Khas, luggage Porters, Gatemen, Sweepers.
Nawanashahr Doaba,

Hashiarpur,

Taran Taran,

Patti,

Moga Tehsil,

Jagraon City,


--- Page 641 ---
12 High Court Rules and Orders — Vol. IV
ae HEE Cu SE ———
Jullundur,
Ludhiana,
Anmrritstar,
Pakpattan.

1. | Sub-Divisional Sub-Divisional Permanent Say Inspectors, Sub-way
Officer of: Officers of these | Inspectors, Inspectors of Works, sub-
Karachi City, places. Inspectors of Works, Overseers,
Hyderabad, Time-Keepers, Mistris, Carpenters,
Sukkur Blacksmiths, Chowkidars, Keymen,

Gatemen, Gangmen, Mates, Sub-
Engineers, Hammermen, Bellowmen,
Sanitary Inspectors, & c.

2. | Shed Foreman of Shed foremen of | Drivers,  Shunters, Firemen,
Karachi these places. Shedmen, Fuel Munshies, Store
Cantonment: --- Munshies, School Masters, Fitters,
Kotri, Fitter Coolies, Boiler Makers, Boiler
Rohri, Maker Coollies, Painters, Masons, &
Khanpur. c., Shed Menial Staff.

Shedman incharge | Shedmen incharge at
ofi--- thee places.

Dadu,

Larkana,

Ruk,

Jacobabad,

Pad Idan.

3. | Station Station Station Masters, Assistant _ Station
superintendent of: | Superintendents at | Masters, Signalers, Goods Clerks,
Kaimari, these places. Transit Clerks, Train Clerks.

Karachi City.

4. | Station Master ofi-— | Station Masters at | Booking clerks, Parcel Clerks, Ticket
Karachi Cantonment, | these places. Collectors, Phone Clerks,
Kotri, Correspondence ~~ Clerk, Yards
Hyderabad Pad idan, Foreman, Chowkidars, Shunting and
Rohri, Points Jamadars, Shunting Porters,
Sukkur, Cabmen, ~~ Signaland ~~ Pointsmen,
Khanpur, Luggage Porters, Gatemen, Sweeper
Ruk, Watermen, Waiting Room Staff,
Dadu. Running Rook Staff, Guard, Goods

Markers, Telegraph Peons, Station
Peons, Box Porters, Lampmen, & c.

5. | Goods Supervisor | Goods Supervisors at
ofr these places
Karachi Bandar
Karachi city.

Chief Goods Clerks, | Chief Goods clerk of
Sukkur Bandar. this place.


--- Page 642 ---
High Court Rules and Orders — Vol. IV 113
—
7. | Divisional Boiler Divisional Boiler | Boiler makers and boiler make
Inspector, Karachi | Inspector of thise | coolies.
Cantonment place.
Pump Inspector of:— | Pump inspectors at | Fitter and fitter coolics, Pump Engine
- these places. Drivers and Firemen, Pump Engine
Kotri, Collies.
Sukkur.
Signal and Signal and | Signal Fitters, Mistries, Cleaners
Interlocking Interlocking Trollymen, Bhishties, Hammermen,
Inspector of:-—- Inspectors at these | Carpenters, Painters, Tingkers, & c.
Karahei City, places.
Kotri,
Rohri.

10. | Block Inspector: | Block Inspectors of | Block Fittes, Mistris, Batterymen,
Kotri, these places. Linkmen, Block Maintainers,
Sukkur. Carpenters, Trollymen, Cleaners, &

c.

11. | Divisional Divisional electrician | Electricians, Electric Examiners,
Electrician, Karachi | of this place. Assistant Electric Examiner, Electric
City. Coolies, Number Takers, Carpenters

Gas Fitters, Painters Gas Fillers and
Lampen, &c.
12. | Electrician, Sukkur. | Electrician of this | Ditto
place.

13. | Divisional Watch and | Divisional Watch and | Assistant Watch and Ward Inspectors,
Ward Inspector, Ward Inspector of | Chowikdars, ~ Head ~~ Watchmen
Karachi City. Karachi. Khalasis.

14. | Gas Overseer, Gas Overseer, | Gas Gitters, Firemen, Stockers, Gas
Karachi Cantonment. | Karachi Cantonment. | Coolies, &.

15. | Divisional Divisional Weight Machine an Millwright
Millwright, Karachi | Millwright, Karachi | Fitters, Collies, Mistries, &c.

City. City.

16. | Head Train Exainer | Head Train | Train Examiners, Number Takers,
oft Examiners of these | Storemen, ~Weheelmen, Cleaners,
Kaimari, laces. Wrenchmen, Greasers, Hammermen,
Karachi City, Carpenters, Blacksmiths, ~Bhishtis,
Kotrik, Sweepers, Washing lampmen &c.
Ruk,

Rohri.
CONTROLLER OF STORES

1. | Controller of Stores, | Controller of Stores, | Gazetted Officers, Senior Head
North-Western North-Western Clerks, Head Clerks, Senior Clerks,
Railway Railway. Clerks and Office Menials employed
Headquarters therein.

Officers, Lahore.


--- Page 643 ---
114 High Court Rules and Orders — Vol. IV
—
2. | District Controllerof | District Controller of | District _Store-Keepers, _Sub-Store-
Stores Officer, Stores. Keepers, Ward Keepers, Clerks,
Moghalpura. Printing Press Staff, Stores
Manufactory Staff, Clothing Factory
Staff, Office Menial and Labour
Staff,
3. | Foreman, Kalka Foreman, Kalkas | Clerk, Motor Fitters, Carpenters
Riverters, Painters, Shop Jamadar,
Lifters, Re-Packers Mashineman,
Blacksmiths, Hammermen, Cooper
and Tinsmiths, Millwright, Moulders,
Cranemen.
MEDICAL DEPARTMENT, NORTH-WESTERN RAILWAY
CHIEF Medicaland | Chief Medical and | Medical Officer, Jind, Bhatinda,
Health Officer, | Health Officer, | Khanpur, Kori,  Malakwal,
North-Western North-Western Pakpattan,  Kalabagh Ghat,
Railway, Lahore. | Railway, Lahore. | Bahawalnagar, District Medical
Officer, North-Western Railway,
Saharanpur and Multan.
1. Medical Advisor, | For themselves and medical
Quetta. subordinate staff working under them
2 Medical Officer, | viz, Assistant Surgeons, Sub-
Amitear. Assistant Surgeons, Nurses,
' Dispensers, Clerks Malis, Sweepers,
3 Medical Officer, | phistis, Chowkidars, Peons, Ward
ambelpur. Boys &c., as the case may be.
4. Medical Officer,
Delhi.
5. Medical Officer,
Ferozepur.
6. Medical Officer,
Gujranwala.
7. Medical Officer,
Gujrat.
8. Medical Officer,
Gurdaspur
9. Medical Officer,
Jhelum
10. Medical Officer,
Karachi.
11. Medical Officer,
Kohat.
12. Medical Officer,
Lahore.
13. Medical Officer,
Mardan.
14. Medical Officer,
Mianwali.


--- Page 644 ---
High Court Rules and Orders — Vol. IV 115
—
15. Medical Officer,
Peshawar.
16. Medical Officer,
Rawalpindi.
17. Medical Officer,
Kangra (at
Dharamshala).
18. Medical Officer,
Sailkot.
19. Medical Officer,
Sukkur.
20. Medical Officer,
Bahawalnagar.
21. Medical Officer,
Bhatinda.
22. Medical Officer,
Jind.
23. Medical Officer,
Kalabagh Ghat.
24. Medical Officer,
Khanpur.
25. Medical Officer,
Kotri.
26. Medical Officer,
Malakwal.
27. Medical Officer,
pakpattan.
28. District Medical
Officer, Multan.
29. District Medical
Officer,
Saharanpur.
Land Acquisition | Land Acquisition | Surveyors,  Draftsmen, Tracers,
Officer, Morth- | Officer, North- | Clerks, Accounts Clerks, Jamadars,
Western Railway | Western Railway, | Peons.
Headquarters Headquarters Office.
Officer, Lahore.
Track Supply ‘All staff under Track Supply Officer,
Officer, North- Lahore.
Western Railway,
Lahore.
Executive Engineer, ‘All Staff un der Exccutive Engineer
Capital Works, Tube Capital works, Tube Boring, Lahore.
Boring, Lahore.
Deputy Chief "All staff uner Deputy Chief Engineer,
Engineer, Bridges, Bridges, Moghalpura.
North-Western


--- Page 645 ---
116 High Court Rules and Orders — Vol. IV

Be
Railway,
Moghalpura.
Exccutive Engineer, All staff under Executive Engineer,
bridges, Jhelum. Bridges, Jhelum.
Executive Engineer, All staff under Executive Engineer,
Bridges, Sukkur. Bridges, Sukkur.
Superintendent, All stff under Superintendent
Mechanical Mechincal workshops, North-Western
Workshop, ~~ North- Railway, Moghalpura.
Western Railway,
Moghalpura.
Signal Engineer, All staff under Signal Engineer,
North-Western North-Western Railway, Lahore.
Railway, Lahore.
Senior Electrical All staff under Senior Electrical
Engineer, ~~ North- Engineer, North-Western Railway,
Western Railway, Moghalpura.
Moghalpura.
Chief Engineer, All staff under Chief Engineer,
Surveys and Surveys and Construction, North-
Construction, Western Railway, Lahore.
Lahore.

1. | Sub-Divisional Sub-Divisional Permanent way Inspectors, Sub-way
Officer: -- Officers of thee | Inspectors, Sub-Inspectors of Works,
Delhi, places. Inspector of works, Overseers, Time-
Saharanpur, Keepers, ~~ Mistris, Carpenters,
Ambala, Keymen, Gangmen, Gatemen, Mates,
Bhatinda, Sub-Engincers, Surveyors and
Jind, Sanitary Inspectors.

Dharampur.

2. | LocoForemani-— | Loco foremen at | Drivers, Shunters fireman, Shedmen,
Delhi, these places. Fuel Munshies, School Masters,
Ghaziabad, Fitters and Fitter Coolies, Store
Saharanpur, Munshies and Shed Menial Staff.
Ambala,

Bhatinda,

Jind,

Shakur Basti,
Kaka.

3. | Station Master:-— | Station Master of | Station Master, Assistant Station
Meerat Cantonment, | these places. Master, Signallers, Goods Clerks,
Meerat City, Transit Clerks, Train Clerks, Booking
Saharanpur, Clerks, Parcel Clerks, Ticket
Ambala Cantonment, Collectors, Phone Clerks
Rajpura, Correspondence ~~ Clerks, Yard
Ludhiana, Foreman, _ Chaukidars, _Shunting


--- Page 646 ---
High Court Rules and Orders — Vol. IV 17

EE

Bhatinda, Jamadars, Shunting Porters, Cabin

Jind, Men, Signal and Pointsmen, Luggage

Shakur Basti, Porters, Gatemen, Sweepers, Water

Kalka, Men, Waiting Room Staff, Running

Simla, Room Staff, Guards and 2nd Guards,

Ghaziabad, Gunners, Markers, Telegraph Peons

N.-W.Ry., Delhi and and Station Peons.

Goods Supervisor,

Delhi Sader. Station

Superintendent,

Delhi.

4. | Head Train | Head Train | Train Examiners, Number Takers,
Examner: Examiner at these | Storemen, Wheel Men, Cleaners,
Delhi, places. Wrenchmen, Greasers, Hammermen,
Ghaziabad, Carpenters, Blacksmiths and Bhishtis.
Saharanpur,

Ludhiana,

Bhatinda,

Kalka.

Division Electrician, | Divisional Electricians, Electric Examienrs,

Delhi. Electrician Assistant Electric Examiners, Electric
Coolies, and Number Takers


--- Page 647 ---
118 High Court Rules and Orders — Vol. IV
————
CHAPTER 9
FINGER IMPRESSIONS; HANDWRITING; FORGED STAMPS

AND CURRENCY AND BANK NOTES
PART A —- DOCUMENTS AND PAPERS ON WHICH THUMB AND FINGER MARKS
SHOULD BE AFFIXED

1. Documents on which thumb-impressions are to be affixed.—The Judges, having
considered the repots submitted from time to time on the working of the system of taking thumb
and finger impressions on judicial records as a means of identification of individuals, are pleased
to direct that such impression be affixed to the following documents and papers, viz.:---

(1) Petitions;

(2) Entries in Petition-writers’ Registrars;

(3) Statements and confessions by accused persons;

(4) Statements by persons against their own interests;

(5) Compromises;

(6) References to arbitration;

(7) Withdrawals of suits under Order XXIII, Rule 1, Civil Procedure Code, 1908, of
complaints under Section 248, Criminal Procedure Code;

(8) Security bonds;

(9) Receipts filed in Court.

2. Appliances required and mode of taking impressions.—For taking thumb-and
finger impressions the following appliances are required:

(1) Atinslab.

(2) Printer’ ink.

(3) A rubber roller (to spread the ink)

A very small quantity of printer’s ink should be poured on the slab and spread thereon
with the rubber roller till it forms into a very thin film. The bulbs of the thumb and all the
fingers of one hand, after being carefully wiped, should be laid lightly over the inky film and
then impressed on the paper.

3. Further directions.—The film once spread is sufficient for taking a large number of
impressions at a time, but should the ink become took thick a drop or two of common sweet oil
may be added and ribbed over again with the rubber roller. The tin slab should be properly
cleaned everyday before the ink is poured on it.

4. Appliances required for reading impressions.—For reading impressions the
following appliances are required:--

(1) A pointer.

(2) A reading glass.

(3) A pocket lens.

(2) and (3) need only be kept by District Judges and District Magistrates.

5. Henry’s treaties on impressions.—A Manual on the classification and uses of finger


--- Page 648 ---
High Court Rules and Orders — Vol. IV 119
————
prints by Mr. E.R. Henry has been circulated to all Sessions Judges, District Magistrates and
District Judges in the Punjab. It contains full instructions for taking impressions.

6. Petition writers to obtain proper apparatus and apply proper impressions.—
District Judges should make a point of seeing that Petition-writers obtain proper apparatus and
apply proper impressions to petitions and on their registers.

71. Appellate Courts to see that these instructions are followed.—Appellate Court are
requested to see that subordinate Court comply with these instructions.

8. Impressions should be affixed on a document on a space not occupied by the
stamp.—Persons responsible for affixing thumb and finger impressions on documents which
bear receipt or Court-fee stamps, should be careful to take such impressions on the actual
document itself, in a place where the paper is clean and free from writing or other marks, and
not on the stamp.

PART B: PHILLAUR FINGER PRINT BUREAU

1. Examination Year.—The following are the fees for the examination of finger
impressions by Experts of the Finger Print Bureau, Phillaur:--

Rs. 16/- for every reference and a further fee of Rs. 4/- for each finger impression
sent for examination when the total number so sent exceeds five (Punjab Government
Letter No. 9076-Police, dated the 25th March, 1924).

These fees shall be credited to Government in the local treasury under the head
“XXIII-Police-Fees, Fines and Forfeitures”. The treasury receipt shall be sent with
the exhibits to the Bureau and the fact mentioned in the letter forwarding the exhibits
for expert opinion.

2. Fees payable to the Police Finger Print Proficients.—As the work of taking thumb-
impressions in civil cases for transmission to Phillaur is not one of the regular duties of a Police
Officer, the Governor has been pleased to decide that Police Finger Print Proficients, who are
required to take such impressions, shall be paid a fee of Re. 1/- for each set of impressions
taken and that such fee shall be paid by litigants themselves in addition to the other charges.
(Punjab Government letter No. 2830-H-Judl., dated the 27th January, 1927).

Note: The fee of one rupee prescribed in this paragraph is for a complete set of plain
and rolled prints of both hands of a person.

3. Instructions re evidence of a Phillaur expert.—The following instructions have been
framed for the guidance of Civil Court when the evidence of Bureau Expert is required: ---

Instructions

(i) Evidence to be taken on commission through Sub-Judge, Phillaur.—When the
evidence of a Bureau Expert is required in a civil case the Sub-Judge of Phillaur shall be
appointed to be the Commissioner to record it.

(ii) Documents may be sent, in the first instance direct to the experts for examination
and opinion.—Courts shall continue to send exhibits in civil cases direct in the first instance to
the Bureau for examination and opinion by experts.

(iii)  Sub-Judge, Phillaur, to set apart a day each week for examination of Phillaur
experts.—If a party to a suit desire such opinion to be received in evidence, an expert of the
Bureau staff shall be summoned to the Court of the Sub-Judge at Phillaur and examined on
Commission on a day to be set apart each week for the hearing of evidence in such cases.

(iv) Bureau shall decide the name of the expert deputed to be examined.—It shall be
left to the Bureau to enter on the summons the name of the expert deputed to be examined.


--- Page 649 ---
120 High Court Rules and Orders — Vol. IV
———

(v) Commissioners’ fees.—The fee to be paid for the Commissioner’s work shall vary
with the value of the civil suit in connection with which the Commission is issued subject to a
maximum of Rs. 20/-; for suits of small value a small fee shall be charged, but the maximum
fee shall be charged in suits of large value; the amount of the fee shall in each case be fixed by
the Court issuing the Commission, and it shall all be credited to Government in the local
treasury under the head “XXI-Administration of Justice-General Fees, Fines and Forfeitures-
Other General Fees, Fines and Forfeitures”.

(vi) Fees for the evidence of experts.—As regards the fee to be paid for the experts’
scrutiny of finger impressions and or their examination in Court, the present fee for the scrutiny
(plus written opinion) shall stand and an additional fee, to be fixed by the Court issuing the
Commission, subject to a maximum of Rs. 16/-, shall be levied for the attendance of the expert
in Court, one-third of which shall be paid to the expert (being remitted by the Court issuing the
Commission direct to the Sub-Judge at Phillaur who will make it over to the expert), and two-
thirds credited by the Court into the local treasury under the head “XXIII-Police-Fees, Fines and
Forfeitures”, the treasury receipt being forwarded with the Commission to the Sub-Judge at
Phillaur who will send it to the Bureau when summoning the expert.

(vii) Summoning of experts in criminal cases.—Experts may continue to be summoned to
give evidence in Courts in criminal cases, and no fee shall be leviable in criminal cases
prosecuted by Government.

(viii) Instructions re dispatch of documents to Phillaur.—n order to ensure the
protection of documents accompanying interrogatories sent by Civil Courts to the Sub-Judge,
Phillaur, care must be taken to see that they are sent in stout envelopes or strong paper or cloth
wrapping. They should be sent by registered post; acknowledgement due, at Government
expenses, both to and from Phillaur. For the return of the documents to the Courts concerned,
the Sub-Judge, Phillaur, will use cloth-lined envelopes of appropriate size to be obtained an
indent for universal forms from the Superintendent, Government Printing, Punjab.

PART C —- RULES REGULATING APPLICATIONS FOR AND PAYMENT OF THE

SERVICES OF THE GOVERNMENT EXAMINER OF QUESTIONED DOCUMENTS
The rules circulated to all Provincial letter No. F.128-9-31-Police, dated the 17th
May, 1934, are reproduced below for the information and guidance of all Courts:--
RULES

1. Applications to be sent to the Government Examiner of Questioned Documents.—
Application should be sent direct to the Government Examiner of Questioned Documents,
Intelligence Bureau, Home Department, New Delhi or Simla, as the case may be, according to
the location of the headquarters of the Government of India at the time. (The Simla season
ordinarily begins about the middle of April and ends about the middle of October).

2. Applications from private individuals.—Applications received direct from private
individuals will not be entertained.

3. Acceptable applications.—Acceptable applications fall into two classes: --

(A) Official applications.—Official applications from Provincial Governments or
officers subordinate to them, including the Presiding Officers of Criminal
Courts, and from High Courts.

(B) Other application. The include:--

@) Cases from private parties in civil suits. —Cases from private parties in civil
suits in British Indian Courts.

These will be accepted only on application from the Court in which the case is


--- Page 650 ---
High Court Rules and Orders — Vol. IV 121
————
being heard. The party concerned must move the Court and it will rest with the

Court to take the further steps necessary to obtain the services of the

Government Examiner of Questioned Documents.

Explanation.—References made by a Court suo motu in civil cases to which the

grown is not a party will be deemed to be cases from private parties for the

purposes of these rules.

(i) Cases from municipal corporations and other local bodies, universities and
railway authority.—Cases from municipal corporations, district boards,
municipalities and other local bodies and from universities and railway
administrations, in British India.

Applications from recognized universities will be received direct. Applications

from railway administrations should be submitted through the Agent of the

railway concerned. Applications from municipal corporations will be received
direct, but from other local bodies will be accepted only if received through the
local District Magistrate who should satisfy himself, before forwarding the
applications, that it is desirable that the Government Examiner of Questioned

Documents should be consulted.

(iii) Cases from Indian States. —These cases will be accepted only if forwarded by
the Durbar or Government concerned through the local Political Officer.

4. Discretion of the Government Examiner to accept or refuse applications falling
R. 3-B above.—Applications falling under class B will ordinarily be accepted but may be
refused at the discretion of the Government Examiner of Questioned Documents if they cannot
be undertaken without detriment to his other work.

5. Scale of fees.—An inclusive fee will be charged in each case in which an opinion is
given and will normally cover the opinion, the cost of photographs and the giving of evidence,
limited in class B cases to one day. The inclusive fee for class A cases (see rule 3) will be Rs.
185/- and for class B cases Rs. 200/-. (This fee does not cover travelling allowance which is
governed by rule 15 below)

6. Payment of fees in advance.—Subject to the exception stated at the end of this rule,
the fee is payable in advance in all cases and each application should be accompanied by a
certificate in the following form: --

“Certified that the sum of rupees one hundred and eighty-five (Rs. 185) / Two
hundred (Rs.200/-) has been deposited in the Treasury
on, 194, on account of the Government Examiner of questioned
Documents’ fee in (Here fill in the details of the case) ; and that this
amount has been shown under head XLVI-Miscellanecous-Central-Other Fees, Fines
and Forfeiture-Fees for the services of the Government Examiner of Questioned
Documents, in the Cash Account and appears at item No. in the
relevant Receipt schedule.

Signature of Treasury Officer
Countersigned
(Signature of officer submitting the case)

In special circumstances, which should be stated in the application, class A cases will

be accepted without this certificate, but the certificate should be forwarded as soon as possible.

71. Additional cost of photographs.—In case where the cost of photographs is
exceptionally heavy the fee will, with the concurrence of the Director, Intelligence Bureau,


--- Page 651 ---
122 High Court Rules and Orders — Vol. IV
————
Home Department, be Rs. 150/- plus the actual cost of the photographs.

In class B cases the authority submitting the case will be informed of the extra cost
involved before it is incurred and will be required to certify that it has been deposited before the
Government Examiner of Questioned Documents proceeds with the case.

8. Fees for opinion only.—In cases in which an opinion is given but no photographs are
taken, the fee will be Rs. 150/- only.

9. Fees for photographs only.—In cases in which no opinion is given but photographs
are taken, only the actual cost of the photographs will be charged.

10. No reduction of fee if evidence is not required.—No reduction in the fee will be
allowed if evidence is not required.

11. Additional fee of Rs. 150/- for each day after the first on which the examiner is
detained.—In class B cases an additional fee of Rs. 150/- will be charged for each day after the
first day on which evidence is given, whether in Court or on commission or on which the officer
is detained. The Presiding Officer or the commissioner will be requested to certify before the
second and each subsequent day’s work is begin, that the fee for that day and also for any
intervening day or days of detention has been deposited, and subsequently to furnish a certificate
as in rule 6 above.

12. Evidence of the Government Examiner in class B cases.—In cases falling under
class B the Government Examiner or his Assistant will be prepared to attend Courts, provided
that he can do so without detriment to his other work. When evidence is taken on commission,
the commission should be issued to the Senior Sub-Judge, Delhi or Simla, as the case may be,
and normally should be so worded that either the Government Examiner or his Assistant can
give evidence.

13. Instructions to Courts not to detain the Government Examiner unnecessarily and
to fix dates offered by the Examiner as far as possible.—Presiding Officers of Courts are
requested to detain the Government Examine of Questioned Documents for his Assistant for the
least possible this compatible with the requirements of the case. They are also requested to
accept, so far as possible, the time and dates for attendance offered by these officers, because
the latter frequently have to attend several Courts in the course of one tour.

14. Right of the Central Government to levy extra charges in certain cases.—The
Central Government in the Home Department reserve the right to impose an extra charge in any
case in which they consider that the usual fee is incommensurate with the time and labour spent
on the case.

15. Travelling allowances of Government Examiner.—When the Government Examiner
of Questioned Documents or his Assistant is required to travel in order to give evidence or for
any other purpose, the authority or party employing his services will be required to pay
travelling allowance at the rates laid down for first-grade officers in the Supplementary Rules of
the Government of India for journeys on tour. Travelling allowance will also be payable for the
peon accompanying the officer at the rates fixed for Central Government peons. These payments
will be adjusted as directed in the Home Department letter No. F.-128/VII/27-Police, dated the
12th January, 1928 (see Appendix at the end of these rules).

In class B cases the Presiding Officer of the Court concerned will be required to
certify that the cost of travelling allowance has been deposited before the Government Examiner
of Questioned Documents or his Assistant undertakes the journey.

APPENDIX
(SEE RULE 15)


--- Page 652 ---
High Court Rules and Orders — Vol. IV 123
————
Procedure for the payment and audit of travelling allowance drawn by the Government
Examiner of Questioned Documents or his Assistant during tour, —vide Home Department
letter No. F-128/VII/27-Police, dated the 12th January, 1928.

1. 1) The Examiner or his Assistant should submit his travelling allowance bills to
the Accountant-General, Central Revenues, for audit and payment.

(2) As soon as a journey is complete, this is, in respect of any complete journey from
headquarters to headquarters, the Examiner or his Assistant should send a statement to the
Accountant-General, Central Revenues, showing the total amount of travelling allowance
claimed to drawn and the distribution of the entire amount among the various Courts for
recovery.

(3) In cases where several Courts are attended, the cost should be distributed between
them in proportion to the distance by rail from headquarters.

(4) As the travelling allowance is debitable to the various local Government or the parties
concerned, the recoveries should be treated as follows: ---

[6] recoveries from the various local Governments should be taken in reduction of
expenditure, provided they are effected within the accounts of the same year; if not,
they should be shown as receipt; and

(ii) recoveries from parties such as local boards, local bodies and private persons should
be taken as receipts.

2. The principles laid down above apply to the payment and audit of lhe travelling

allowance of the peon accompanying the Examiner or his Assistant.

3. If after the Examiner or his Assistant has actually commenced a tour, intimation is
received from a Court included in the tour to the effect that his evidence would not be required
on the date originally fixed the Court shall pay the difference between the total expenditure
actually incurred on the tour and the expenditure that would have been incurred if attendance in
that Court had not been included in the tour. This shall be specially made clear when the bill is
sent to the Court for acceptance.

4. The Examiner and his Assistant shall observe the provisions of Supplementary Rule
30 when they frame their programme for tour.

PART D —- EXPERT OPINION IN FORGERIES RELATING TO STAMP AND
CURRENCY AND BANK NOTES

1. The Central Government has suggested that in any cases of doubt in which the
opinion of an expert may be required on the question whether stamps are genuine or forged,
reference should be made to the Master, Security Printing, India, Nasik Road, for his or his
nominee’s report.

Fees chargeable by the Master, Security Printing.—The following fees will be
charged by the Master, Security Printing, for the examination of stamps and for giving evidence
on commission: --

(1) For each stamp examined, Rs. 10/-, but where the stamps to be examined consist of a
block or blocks from the same sheet this fee will be charged for the examination of
each block, as any one of the stamps is representative of the whole block.

(2) For stamps examined on commission, Rs. 20/- per document, irrespective of the
number of stamps requiring examination on each document; provided that where more
than one document relating to the same case is to be examined on the same day, the
charge will be Rs. 20/- for the first and Rs. 10/- for each subsequent document.


--- Page 653 ---
124 High Court Rules and Orders — Vol. IV
————
These fees will be credited to “VII-Stamps-Central-Security Printing Press—
Miscellaneous”.
(Government of India, Finance Department, letter No. R.-Dis. No. 44-Stamps/35,
dated the 26th April, 1935, to all Provincial Government, etc.)

2. Expert opinion about genuineness of currency and Bank Notes. Fees of the
Expert.—The Government of India have approved of the following scale of charges to be made
by the Master, Security Printing, India, Nasik Road, for the examination of currency and bank
notes and for giving evidence on commission: --

(1) For each note examination, Rs. 10/- per note.

(2) For notes examined on Commission in connection with forgery cases, Rs. 20/-per
case.

These fees will be credited to “XXVII-Currency-Miscellaneous”.
(Government of India, Finance Department letter No. D-5227-F, dated the Ist August,
1936, to all Provincial Governments, etc.)

3. Fees of expert when opinion is required by the Police or the Reserve Bank.—The
Central Government have decided that no charge should ordinarily be made by the Master,
Security Printing, India, for giving expert assistance to the Police or to the Reserve Bank in
connection with any criminal prosecution. In any case, however, where the Master, Security
Printing, India, considers that his free services are being abused, he will bring the matter to the
notice of Central Government. He will, of course, be entitled to charge for assistance given to
private parties or in civil suits in which Government is not one of the parties.

(Government of India, Finance Department, letter No. D/I880-F, dated the 12th
March, 937, to all Provincial Government, etc.).


--- Page 654 ---
High Court Rules and Orders — Vol. IV 125
————
CHAPTER 10
FORFEITED AND UNCLAIMED PROPERTY AND MALKHANAS
PART A —ITEMS OF ACCOUNT CONNECTED WITH LAW AND JUSTICE, SALES
AND UNCLAIMED PROPERTY, JUDICIAL FORFEITURES, &C.

(i)  General.—The annexed rules, framed at the instance and with approval of the
Provincial Government, aim at the prevention of fraud so far as items of account connected with
law and justice are concerned.

(ii) Subjects dealt with.— They deal with:--

(1) Sale-proceeds of unclaimed and escheated property; and
(2) Judicial forfeitures, including:-—-
(a) the proceeds of property of absconding offenders and witnesses, sold
under the provisions of Section 88 of the Code of Criminal Procedure;
(b) forfeitures of earnest-money deposited at sales of immovable property in
execution of decrees; and
(6) sums realized under forfeited security and bail-bonds.

(ili)  Officer-in-charge.—Heads of office will take particular note of the instructions
contained in rules 1-4 inclusive, and will not fail to appoint an officer of the headquarters staff
to supervise the Nazirs’ Store-room and Miscellaneous Register K as required by rule 4.

(iv) Directions as to preparation of returns.—The principles underlying rules 6 and 7
for the preparation of the return thereby required, are those which regulate the Monthly Fine
Statements. As subordinate Judges are under the operation of rule 6 required to furnish a return
of the forfeiture of earnest money deposited at sales of immovable property in execution of
decrees, District Judges should take steps to instruct Subordinate Judges in the rules, regulating
the preparation and submission of fine statements, and direct strict compliance therewith,
mutatis mutandis, for the preparation and submission of the statement prescribed in rule 6. It
will not escape notice that the statements required by Rules 6 and 7 must be separate and distinct
from each other, and from the statement of fines. The caution to Record-keepers at the end of
rule 6 should be brought prominently to the notice of those officials.

(v) Statements to be submitted monthly.—The statements should be submitted monthly
to the Accountant-General, as soon as possible after the close of the month to which they refer.

(vi) Items of uncertain revenue, stamps etc., require special attention.—The attention
of Deputy Commissioners is specially invited to the following remarks, regarding items of
uncertain revenue, recorded by the Accountant-General:--

“All items of uncertain revenue for which there is no fixed demand, or for which
there are no vouchers, as in the case of stamps, are liable to be misappropriated in the
first instance by the establishment which collects them, the statements of receipts
being falsified in its preparation and made to agree with the sum actually paid into the
Treasury. The system of check now proposed will reveal no fraud designed and
perpetrated at this stage; and with the knowledge before them, that independent
statements of realizations by the collecting officers, and of Treasury credits, exist for
comparison, the perpetrators of such frauds would be careful to see that the statement
of receipts corresponds with the sums actually paid in by them.”

(vii) Portions of bail and security bonds forfeited. —Demands on account of amounts
forfeited on bail and security-bonds should be entered in Criminal Register No. XIV, and


--- Page 655 ---
126 High Court Rules and Orders — Vol. IV
————
realization of such demands in Fine Register No. XV.

(viii) Nazir’s strong box not to contain property exceeding Rs.1,000/- Nazir’s store
room and Police guard.—Every Nazir shall be provided with a strong box and store room for
the custody of all property made over to him, including bullion or jewels of less value than one
thousand rupees. The bullion or jewels shall be kept in the strong box which shall be deposited
in the Treasury under single lock, while the other property shall be kept in the store room which
shall be guarded by the police with Government property. It shall be the duty of the officer-
incharge of the store room to see that the value of valuable property such as bullion or jewels
lying with the Nazir at any time does not exceed Rs. 1,000/-. If at any time this limit is
exceeded, the property shall be sent to the Treasury Officer for safe custody.

(ix) Disposal of property attached and subsequently found to be unclaimed.—If there
is any property which has been attached by a Court in execution of a decree and is subsequently
found to be unclaimed and incapable of being returned, it should be disposed of under Sections
25 to 27 of the Police Act.

RULES

1. Entry of property made over to Nazir in Register K and its safe custody.—All
property made over to the Nazir under the rules contained in Chapter 11-E of Volume III of the
Rules and Orders, or otherwise under the orders of a Judicial Officer acting as such, shall, after
cach article has been entered in Miscellaneous Register K; be kept in such place as may
appointed by the head of the office concerned in consultation with the Police authorities.

2. Articles forfeited and made over to the Nazir to be entered in one register, etc.,
and directions are the entries to be made in this register.—One register in 2 volumes shall be
maintained in each office for both the Civil and Criminal Departments, the first volume for
articles which have been forfeited and the second for articles which have been made over to the
Nazir pending the decision of a case. If it is subsequently decided that an article entered in the
2nd volume should be forfeited, it should be entered in the Ist volume, Columns 1 to 5 of this
register shall be filled up on receipt of the property. When the property is received from the
Police the number given to the deposit in column 1 shall be entered by the Nazir-in the Police
register in which he acknowledges the receipt of the property. When the property is received
otherwise than through the Police, the number given to the deposit in column 1 shall noted by
the Nazir on the record of the proceedings ordering the property to be made over to him. To
ensure due compliance with these instructions, the police Registers should occasionally be
compared with the Nazir’s registers and Record-keepers should be instructed not to receive into
their record-rooms any record in which property appears to have been made over to the Nazir,
otherwise than through the Police, unless the acknowledgement of the Nazir and the number
given to the deposit in his register have been duly entered on the record.

3. Directions with regard to the above-mentioned register.—Columns 6 to 8 of the
register will be filed up when the property is disposed of. If the property is disposed of by
delivery to a private person, the delivery shall always take place in the presence of the officer
ordering the delivery and be attested by his initials in column 6. In cases in which the sale-
proceeds of property or the property itself, where it consists of cash, are paid into the Treasury,
the date of payment and number of the Treasury receipts shall be entered in column 8, in
addition to the Treasurer's signature; and when items pertaining to several cases are
acknowledged -in one receipt, the register numbers of the different cases and the amount paid in
cach shall be endorsed on the Treasury receipt.

4. Monthly statements by Nazir and its verification by the officer-in-charge. Six-
monthly inspection of store room and monthly inspection of Register K.—The Nazir’s store
room and Miscellaneous Register K shall always be placed under the special supervision of an
officer of the headquarters staff, who shall examine and countersign the register at least once a


--- Page 656 ---
High Court Rules and Orders — Vol. IV 127
————
month, and inspect the contents of the store room at least once in 6 months. The District Nazir
shall be responsible under the officer-incharge for the disposal of such property and he will
prepare the monthly statement of sale-proceeds of unclaimed and escheated property created into
the Treasury for submission to the Accountant-General. The office copy of the statement will be
used for the purposes of checking the Treasury credits and a reference to the number of the
entry in Miscellaneous Register K should therefore be made in the last column of the office
copy. The officer-in-charge should, when signing the monthly statement after verification by the
Treasury, compare the entries in the office copy with those in the Miscellaneous Register K and
initial in column 6 of the Register all entries of sale of unclaimed property brought to account in
the monthly statement and also all orders of competent authority to destroy such property.
Papers relating to orders authorizing destruction or those relating to sale fetching less than Re.
1/- should be kept by the Nazir in quarterly files till the accounts have been audited, when those
with regard to which no objection has been raised may be destroyed and the others kept pending
till the next audit. The rest should be arranged in monthly files an sent to the Record-room.

Note:~The officer-in-charge at the time of the six-monthly inspection, required by
this rule, should report to the District Magistrate the total value of the property lying with the
Nazir and the District Magistrate should satisfy himself that proper steps have been taken to
return the articles of private property to their owners and to dispose of unclaimed property by
auction.

5. Judicial forfeitures — Duty of Courts to send monthly statements and verify
Nazir’s District statement.—The papers relating to the disposal of property forfeited in judicial
cases are included in the proceedings in which the order of forfeiture is given. Each Court shall
send to the Nazir a monthly statement of such realizations. From these statements the Nazir will
compile the District statement, but the comparison of entries in the office copy with those in
Miscellaneous Register K and the initialing of entries in column 6 of Miscellaneous Register K
shall be the duty of the Court dealing with the proceedings for forfeiture.

6. Forfeiture of earnest money auction sales in execution. Duty of Court to submit
statement. Duty of record-keeper on receipt of execution record.—In the event of an order of
forfeiture of the earnest money mentioned in Order XXI, Rule 84, Civil Procedure Code,
becoming necessary under the operation of Order XXI, Rule 85, the Presiding Officer of the
Court ordering the sale and subsequently forfeiture shall prepare, for submission to the
Accountant-General, according to the present procedure for the preparation and submission of
the monthly statement of realization of fine by each Court, at the beginning of the monthly next
following that in which the forfeiture occurred, a statement of the sum credited to Government
under the provisions of Order XXI, Rule 86; and such Presiding Officer will be responsible that
the legitimate “expenses of the sale” only have been deducted from amount deposited. The
Treasury receipt for the amount actually credited to Government shall remain in the record of
proceedings, and Record-keepers shall not receive into the record office any record which is not
accompanied by such receipt.

71. Statement of sums realized under forfeited security and bail bonds.—Sums
realized under forfeited security and bail bonds shall be entered in the Register of Fine
Realizations (Criminal Register No. XV) maintained by the District Fine Moharrir for all Courts
in the District. Each Court shall, at the beginning of every month, prepare, for submission to the
Accountant-General, according to the present procedure for the preparation and submission of
the monthly statement of realizations of fines by each Court, a list of all sums so realized by it
during the month preceding.

Note:--The statement mentioned in rule 6 and the list in rule 7 will be separate from
each other and from the monthly statement of fines realized, sent to the Accountant-General in
accordance with paragraph 29(1) Chapter II of the Volume.

PART B — CUSTODY AND DISPOSAL OF THE PROPERTY ATTACHED UNDER THE


--- Page 657 ---
128 High Court Rules and Orders — Vol. IV
————
CRIMINAL PROCEDURE

In order that all property which is at the disposal of the Government under Section 88
or attached under Section 386 or 332 or any other section of the Criminal Procedure Code may
be brought to account and the responsibility of the Government may be properly discharged, the
following rules have been made under Section 224, Government of India Act, 1935 by the High
Court with the approval of the Provincial Government: -—-

1. Arrangements for the safe custody, preservation and proper management of the
property attached. —Whenever property Rules is attached under the orders of a Criminal Court,
the Court shall make suitable arrangement for its safe custody, preservation and property
management.

2. Registers to be maintained.—The Court shall maintain the following registers in
which all property attached shall be entered: ---

[0] Miscellaneous Register K/1.

(i) Index Register.

The forms of these registers are appended to these rules.

In the Index Register the names of the persons whose property is attached should be
entered in chronological order and an alphabetical index giving reference to the pages of the
register should be maintained in the beginning.

3. Time for the disposal of the attached property by sale. —The attached property of a
proclaimed offender other than that ordered by the Court immediately to be sold under the
provisions of Section 88(5), Criminal Procedure Code, shall not be sold until the expiration of
six months from the date of attachment and until all claims preferred or objections made under
Section 88 have been disposed of.

4. Time for the disposal of the attached property by sale.—If the proclaimed offender
does not appear before the Court within six months from the date of attachment and after all the
objections, if any, made under Section 88 have been disposed of the Court shall take steps to sell
the property unless for sufficient reasons it deems fit to postpone the sale.

5. Directions as to be delivery of property released. —Whenever the Court directs the
release of the property attached in favour of any person, in whole or in part, it shall be delivered
to him or his authorized agent in the presence of the Court or by an officer of the Court in the
presence of respectable witnesses.

6. Deposit of sale proceeds or income of property in Treasury.—The price realized
from sale of the property attached or its income shall be forthwith deposited in Government
Treasury under the head “XXI — Administration of Justice.”

71. Refund of proceeds or income.—Whenever the price or income of the property is
ordered to be delivered to a person, it shall be paid to him by means of a refund voucher.


--- Page 658 ---
High Court Rules and Orders — Vol. IV 129
—
INDEX REGISTER

Date of Name and Particulars Reference of Date of REMARKS
Attachment | Address of the | of the case | Miscellancous | release
person whose Register K/1
property has been
attached


--- Page 659 ---
130 High Court Rules and Orders — Vol. IV
————
MISCELLANEOUS REGISTER K/1 OF THE MOVABLE AND IMMOVABLE
PROPERTY

Ee]
5
=
S
E F i}
8 |g | 2 . g
2 g 8 g >
» g 1 2 ET
£135 | 8 § 2
gE Ed z
Els 0% |e |g |s E
2 |< |g |B |E |2 £
sls |5 |g |E |B |5|2
5 a 2 8 E
H sc |S |E |2 | 8 |% |8 8
El S 9 g El > a | g
3 No. g | El o g S 8 g
Z linmdx| Zz | 5 [3 | 5 | 8 |3 |g |§ |REMARKS
E Register | 2 | 8 |S |Z |Z EE |e
k: 2 lz | 2 |Z |& [58 |¢
2 P= 2 £ g ES Z
£ S £ 2 z 5] 2
5 |g | & |& |§ |= &
2 Ek] 15 & 5
2 Fl °
£ 3 & g g
I] g
TE : H
2 £ a
g 8
Z
IRI LL a A LI
Note: In column 8, if released, give reference to date of order. If sold, mention the agency
through which it has been disposed of State also for what price sold and whetehr by public
auction or private.
2 Inclumn9 give the number of the Treasury receipt.
3. In column II mention the various orddes passed by the Court.
PART C —- ARMS AND AMMUNITION
The following rules have been framed by the Punjab Government for the guidance of
officers dealing with arms, ammunition and military stores deposited in district malkhanas:---
RULES
1. Nazarat Officer — Separate room in Malkhana under double lock to be provided
for custody of arms, etc.—A separate room in every district malkhana shall, if possible, be set
apart for the deposit of arms, ammunition and military stores. Where such a separate room is
used, it shall be kept under double lock, one key being retained by the officer of the
headquarters staff responsible for the supervision of the malkhana, who is referred to in these
rules as the “Nazarat Officer”, and the other by the “District Nazir”.
2. Responsibility of the Nazarat Officer.—The Nazarat Officer shall be generally
responsible for the supervision and disposal of arms, ammunition and military stores deposited
in the malkhana. He shall compare the arms, ammunition and military stores in stock in the


--- Page 660 ---
High Court Rules and Orders — Vol. IV 131
————
malkhana with the register prescribed by rule 4 once a month; and shall submit a report of this
inspection to the District Magistrate by the 10th of each month.

3. Responsibility of the District Nazir.—Subject to the control of the Nazarat Officer,
the District Nazir, and not any of his assistants, shall be held personally responsible for the
proper receipt, safe custody and disposal of all arms, ammunition and military stores.

4. Return of arms, etc., deposited in Malkhana.—Particulars of all arms, ammunition or
military stores received in the malkhana shall at once be entered in register to be kept for this
purpose, in addition to Miscellaneous Register K, in form I appended to these rules. On the
receipt of any arms, ammunition or military stores, columns 1 to 13 shall forthwith be filled up,
and the register shall then be submitted to the Nazarat Officer who, after satisfying himself as to
the accuracy of the entries, shall place his initials in column 14.

5. Return of arms, etc., deposited in the Malkhana.—Arms, ammunition and military
stores which have been deposited in the Malkhana, and have not been forfeited to Government,
shall be returned to the persons entitled to possess them in cases in which the deposit was made
by a Court, under the orders in writing of the Court, and in other cases under the orders in
writing of the Nazarat Officer. The return of all arms, ammunition and military stores under this
rule shall take place in the presence of a Gazetted Officer, who shall be responsible for seeing
that the relevant columns of the register are filled up.

6. Sales of arms, etc., forfeited and not ordered to be destroyed.—All arms,
ammunition and military stores which have been deposited in the malkhana, and have been
forfeited to Government, and have not been ordered by a Court to be destroyed, may be sold
under the orders in writing of the District Magistrate to persons entitled to possess them. A
specific and distinct order must be passed with respect to the sale of each weapon or of each lot
of ammunition or military stores proposed to be sold, and the sale price must be fixed by the
District Magistrate unless the sale is to be by auction. In passing orders for the sale of arms,
ammunition and military stores, the District Magistrate should remember that arms, ammunition
and stores which can be utilized by the police or by any department under Government may be
retained and brought into use with the sanction of the Provincial Government, and should refer
for drders any case in which it appears that it would be to the advantage of Government that the
arms, ammunition or stores should be retained.

7. Magistrate dealing with administration of the Indian Arms Act to be informed of
the sale.—The officer of the headquarters staff who, under the orders of the District Magistrate,
deals in the first instance with questions relating to the administration of the Indian Arms Act,
1878, and of the rules thereunder, shall be informed of the sale of all arms, ammunition and
military stores, and shall be furnished with a full description of the articles and sold and with
information as to the address of the purchaser.

8. Procedure for destruction of arms, ammunition and military stores.—All arms,
ammunition and military stores which have been ordered by a Court to be destroyed, or for the
destruction of which the District Magistrate, after considering the possibility of their disposal
under rule 5 has passed express orders, shall be dealt with as follows: --

(a) All rifled fire-arms and fire-barrels, pistols and revolvers shall be sent to the nearest
Ordnance Officer, under proper precautions, to be broken up. The Nazarat Officer
shall advise the Ordnance Officer concerned of the despatch of such arms, and shall
personally supervise their dispatch. He shall also inform the District Magistrate as
soon as he has actually dispatched them, and shall in the course, submit the receipt of
the Ordnance Officer to the District Magistrate, for his information.

(b) All arms, other than those referred to in clause (a) of this rule, ammunition and
military stores shall be broken up or destroyed locally in the presence of the Nazarat
Officer and the materials (if any) remaining shall be sold.


--- Page 661 ---
132 High Court Rules and Orders — Vol. IV
————

When the procedure prescribed by this rule has been completed, the relevant columns
of the register shall be filled up. It is of great importance that the number of articles awaiting
disposal under this rule should not be allowed to become excessive. Articles, the destruction of
which has been ordered, should be kept as far as possible separate from the remainder of the
arms, ammunition and military stores in the malkhana, and should be dispatched to the Arsenal
or destroyed locally, as the case may be, at least once a month. A simple register of such
articles should be kept in form II appended to these rules.

9. Register No. I to be opened a new every year. Its checking by the Nazarat Officer
and the District Magistrate. —The register mentioned in rule 4 shall be an annual register. At
the beginning of each year a new register shal be opened on to which all arms, ammunition and
military stores lying in the malkhana shall be brought before the 10th of January. The Nazarat
Officer shall be personally responsible for seeing that all arms, ammunition and military stores
not shown as disposed of in the previous year’s register are in the malkhana, and he shall at
once report if there is any deficiency. The District Magistrate shall, during the month of
January, check the entries in the register with the arms in the malkhana, and, in order to satisfy
himself that the register has been properly prepared, he shall examine a sufficient number of
entries in the previous year’s register. He shall specially arrange for the disposal of arms liable
to sale or destruction if their number is excessive.


--- Page 662 ---
FORM I
(SEE RULE 4)
REGISTER SHOWING ARMS, AMMUNITION AND MILITARY STORES INT EH MALKHANA AT
a ca ll dl a
For what Date of disposal N
EH abject 3 5
8 received. £ Ww | E52
5 Ts H E 5 | 5 HEE
g = E 2 |B 3 5| 5 52
EE |3 3 |: € |g | |£ § Bl8_|g:|¢
al gl e|E2 [£8 |S € |$ lc 8 H Sl5z|52|5¢
JE EE] EE | 2 |g |°% 2 es 2 |S |<|% 5 |E 28|SE 5% |u
$8 5 5 Es |B 5 |z 2 |: |£ ER] Fl EE|22| E28
CRRI0I0 FE RE BEEP TRE REE END IE CAPE REE ES HES
EHH EERE EEE EER FEE EEE ER HEHE
4 ss 2 5 3 EEE = EE 2
HEIFERS BNE NEE EERE ERE AI RE A
ST O|E Ez |&0%|F Dz EE ald) 2EfE Es
z ERE s |EE|E |Z g FRELE]
g§ bE] £ 3 = a |[2E|E
FH a 2 ELI
[ 2 ER


--- Page 663 ---
FORM II
(SEE RULE 8)
REGISTER OF ARMS, AMMUNITION AND MILITARY STORES,
THE DESTRUCTION OF WHICH HAS BEEN ORDERED
EE EN FR EN EN LE

Serial Reference | Descriptio | Date of | Date of | Initials of  Nazarat
No. to the | n of | dispatch to | destruction | Officer

serial articles Arsenal

number in

the register

in Form [


--- Page 664 ---
High Court Rules and Orders — Vol. IV 135
————
PART D — CIVIL COURTS’ MALKHANAS

1. Custody and supervision of Malkhana.—There shall be one common store room at
the District Headquarters for all the Civil Courts of a district under the control of the Civil Nazir
to be known as the Civil Nazir’s malkhana. The malkhana shall be placed under the direct
supervision of the Senior Subordinate Judge (or the Adminstrative Sub-Judge in the districts
where one has been appointed) or any other officer whom the High Court may, by general or
special directions appoint. This officer shall be known as the officer-in-charge for the purpose of
these rules.

2. Custody of property with the Civil Nazir.—Every Civil Nazir shall be provided
with a strong box for the custody of all light property such as jewels, bullion, etc., upto the
value of one thousand rupees. This strong box may be placed in the outer room of the Treasury,
if it is open, as provided in chapter 3 of the Punjab Financial Rules and it is closed, the officer-
in-charge should arrange for its safe custody in the Civil Nazir’s malkhana, subject to the
provision of rule 89. The Civil Nazir shall be primarily responsible for the safe custody of the
malkhana, the strong box, and the keys thereof subject to the general superintendence of the
officer-in-charge. It shall be the duty of the officer-in-charge to see that the aggregate value of
property such as jewels, bullion, etc., in custody of the Civil Nazir, does not at any time exceed
Rs. 1,000/-.

3. Custody of property with the Treasury Officer.—Where the property consists of
bullion, coin, currency notes, valuable securities or jewels, and its value exceeds one thousand
rupees, it should, instead of being kept in the custody of the Civil Nazir, be made over to the
Treasury Officer for safe custody in the Treasury; coin or currency notes (other than counterfeit
coin and notes) will be treated as regular deposits under the rules in Chapter XII of the Punjab
Financial Rules; bullion at its estimated value, securities, irrespective of their face value, and
jewels will be deposited for safe custody, and an entry made by the Treasury Officer in the
special register kept in form P.F.R. 2 which should be countersigned every month by the
District Magistrate, or of the Additional District Magistrate. The orders of the Deputy
Commissioner must be obtained before placing bullion or jewellery, etc., for safe custody in the
Treasury.

4. Miscellaneous Register K.—Columns 1 to 5 of the Miscellaneous Register K shall be
filled up by the Civil Nazir on receipt of the property. The number given to the deposit in
column No. 1 shall be noted by the Nazir on the record of the proceedings ordering the property
to be made over to him.

5. Record-keepers’ responsibility.—Record-keepers should be instructed not to receive
into their record rooms any record in which property appears to have been made over to the
Civil Nazir, unless the acknowledgement of the Civil Nazir and the number given to the deposit
in his register have been duly entered on the record.

6. Disposal of the property.—Columns 6 to 8 of the register will be filled up after the
disposal of the property. If the property is delivered to a private person, the delivery shall take
place in the presence of the Court ordering the delivery or of the officer-in-charge of the
malkhana as may be convenient and shall be attested in column 6 by the initials of the officer
responsible for the delivery.

7. Duties of the officer-in-charge, Malkhana.—The officer-in-charge shall examine
and countersign the register at least once a month and inspect the contents of malkhana at least
once in six months. He shall at the time of the six-monthly inspection, report to the District
Judge the total value of property lying with the Civil Nazir and the efforts made to dispose of


--- Page 665 ---
136 High Court Rules and Orders — Vol. IV
————
the property.

8. Guarding of Malkhanas.—The Civil Nazir’s malkhana shall be guarded by a
Chaukidar but if the value of the property is large and the property is not of such a nature that it
can be conveniently deposited in the Treasury or kept in the Civil Nazir’s strong box, the
officerin-charge may appoint temporary additional guard or guards.

9. Control and supervision of outlying store-rooms.—Where there is a storeroom
attached to the Court of an outlying Civil Court, it shall be under the immediate control and
supervision of the Naib-Nazir, who shall be responsible for the safe custody of the contents
thereof and the keys, subject to the general superintendence of the officer-in-charge.

10. Custody of valuable securities, jewels, etc., in outlying Courts.—Valuable
securities or jewels shall not be kept in outlying store-rooms. Where there is a sub-treasury near
the Court, such valuable property shall be treated as subject to the provisions of Rule 3 and be
kept in the local sub-treasury, or where there is no such sub-treasury it shall be transferred for
safe custody at District headquarters according to the foregoing rules.

General

11. Custody of perishable property and live-stock.—Perishable property or livestock
shall not be returned by the Civil Nazir or Naib-Nazir for custody in a malkhana, but made over
to a Sapurdar.


--- Page 666 ---
REGISTER OF BULLION, JEWELLERY AND OTHER VALUABLES CONNECTED WITH CASES REQUIRED TO BE TAKEN OUT
FREQUENTLY
Date of | Serial | From | Description | Descrip- A
receipt No. whom | of the case | tion of = “ ls “ 5 “
received | concerned | articles | E | 2 2 2 Elz Ee |B 2
g 3 HE EE |B EE Elz
g |z gE |E eg |B BE eB |E BE
gz gE |Z EB (EE 8% (5%
5 (2B | (SBE [BBE |Ssy [F 2BE| 23
2 (SE |E |S | € EEE 88 |E EE |E | EE
g £ S|5 |55|5 [§5|5|%5 |¢ 2S 6 | ES
gE |28 | 8 |€8 | ¢ [BEE |=8 |§ |BE|8 | 58
EEE |B BEE BEE Ee | [8&2 2
5 |& 5 |® Ss Is 5 |B 5 |g S|
«|B i |g 2 12 [Eg 2 lg |B
| F 2 |Z 2 |Z £2 2 |5 22
El E |g EE |2|% z Eg
= 8 5 aE al 5
5 Ei a Ei Ei Ei
a
EE HC NI A I CN AA BC ED EN a EA


--- Page 667 ---
CHAPTER 11
REALIZATION OF FINES

1. Discretion to be used in making further efforts to realize fine if sufficient efforts
may have failed. —Although Section 70 of the Indian Penal Code gives the power to levy a fine
at any time within six years or during the term of imprisonment of the offender, if this be more
than six years, neither that section nor Section 386 of the Code of Criminal Procedure requires
that the power should be exercised in every case. The law is permissive and not imperative.
When sufficient efforts have been made to realize a fine by distress and sale, but without any
success, the Court should exercise its discretion, according to the circumstances of each
particular case, as to whether any further steps should be taken towards the realization of the
fine within the period allowed by law. If there is reason to believe that the offender is able to
pay, but will not do so preferring to undergo imprisonment, the law should be strictly enforced;
but if it appears that the fine was not paid for want of means or that its full realization would be
ruinous to the offender or his family, it is not desirable that further steps should be taken.

2. ‘Warrant for recovery of fine to be issued only for special reasons if accused has
undergone imprisonment in lieu of fine.—Under Section 386, as amended in 1923, the
offender movable as well as immovable property is now liable to be sold for realization of the
fine. But sale of immovable property must be made through the Collector of the District. When
an offender has undergone the sentence of imprisonment awarded in default of payment of the
fine, no Court can issue a warrant for realization of the fine unless for special reasons to be
recorded in writing, it considers it fit to do so.

3. Fine Register. Its scope and inspection.—Every Court, whether Criminal or Civil,
will keep up in the vernacular a separate Fine Register (No. XIV Criminal), and it will be the
duty of the Reader of each Court to see that all fines imposed by the Judge or Magistrate are
entered the same day in this register. Compensation awarded under Section 545 of the Code of
Criminal Procedure will be treated as a fine imposed in a case instituted on complaint by the
original defendant. Fines imposed under Section 480 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, or
under Order XVI, Rules 12, 17 of the Code of Civil Procedure, will also be entered in the
register and dealt with according to the instructions laid down in these directions. The register
should be inspected and signed in the case of Sessions Courts, by the Judge once a month, and,
in other Courts, by the Presiding Officer once a week.

4. General Register of fines. Its scope and inspection.—In addition to the above
register there will also be kept up in the same form, at the headquarters of each District, a
General Register of Fines. This register will be under the special charge of the Fine Moharrir,
whose duty it will be to see that the register is correctly maintained, that the necessary measures
are taken from time to time to realize the fines, and that sums realized are duly disposed of. He
should in each case look for his orders to the officer who, under these directions, is responsible
for the due execution of the sentences of fine. Separate pages of this register and separate serial
numbers should be assigned to the Court of each Magistrate and each Civil Court in the District,
and also to the Sessions Court exercising jurisdiction therein. The Presiding Officer of each
Court will send to the Fine Moharrir a copy of all entries made in his separate register on the
day on which they are made. Fines imposed by the Sessions Court will be entered in accordance
with the rules hereinafter provided.

This register should be inspected and signed by the Magistrate of the District, or the
Assistant Commissioner or Extra-Assistant Commissioner specially charged with the supervision
of the Fine Department, once a week at least.

5. Payment of fine at the time of pronouncing sentence — procedure.—(i) If a
person, at the time of being sentenced to fine, whether or not in addition to other punishment,
tenders payment, in whole or in part, to the Judge or Magistrate imposing the fine, such Judge


--- Page 668 ---
High Court Rules and Orders — Vol. IV 139
————
or Magistrate will receive the amount tendered and grant, under his hand, a receipt in the form
prescribed for the same.

(ii) If the fine has been paid in full, the Court will cause an entry to that effect to be made
on the file of the case and will sign such entry; and, if the Court is a Court of Session, will, in
forwarding a copy of the sentence to the Magistrate of the District, under Section 373 of the
Code of Criminal Procedure, notify the fact of payment with a view to the necessary entry being
made in the District Register of Fines. If the fine has been paid only in part the Court will
likewise cause such payment to be entered on the file of the case, and will then proceed as
provided hereinafter.

(iii) ~~ Fines thus paid direct into Court at the time of sentence should be entered at once in
the Court's Fine Register, the amount received being noted by the Presiding Officer with his
own hand in column 12, and should be then dealt with in the manner provided in paragraph 19
of these directions.

6. Procedure for recovery of fine imposed by the Sessions Judge.—Under Section 386
of the Code of Criminal Procedure it is in the discretion of the Court passing a sentence of fine
to issue a warrant for the levy of the amount by distress and sale of movable property belonging
to the offender, although the sentence provides for his imprisonment in default. If the fine is
imposed by a Court of Session, the Judge should, in the absence of any special direction to the
contrary in the law under which the fine is imposed, direct the warrant to the Magistrate of the
District. If the whole or a portion of the fine has been awarded in compensation or reward, this
fact should be communicated, alongwith the warrant. The Magistrate of the District to whom the
warrant is addressed will, on receipt, cause the particulars to be entered in the proper page of
the General Fine Register, and the Fine Moharrir will then be responsible that the proper steps
are taken for the realization of the fine.

7. Production for recovery of fine imposed by Magistrates.—If the fine is imposed by
a Magistrate the warrant should, except when issued by a Tehsildar for execution in his own
tehsil, or as hereinafter provided in paragraph 11, ordinarily be addressed to the Tehsildar
within whose jurisdiction the offender resides. Warrants for the levy of fine, received by a
District Magistrate under the preceding paragraph, should also be executed through the
Tehsildars in the same manner as the warrants issued by Magistrates.

8. Warrants for recovery of fine not to be sent to Police. —The practice of issuing a
written order to the police for the realization of the fine has been discontinued under the orders
of the Provincial Government. In considering whether a warrant of distress should or should not
be issued the Court will bear in mind the provisions of Section 386 of the Code of Criminal
Procedure.

9. Recovery of fine in instalments and suspension of execution of sentence of
imprisonment.—Section 388 of the Code (as recently amended) provides for the realization of
fine in instalments and suspension of the execution of the sentence of imprisonment in default of
payment of the fine, when an offender is sentenced to fine only.

10. Recovery of fine in cantonment.—Warrants issued for the levy of fines by distress
and sale of movable property situate in Cantonments will not be executed by the Tehsildar, but
through the Magistrate entrusted with the Judicial work of the Cantonment concerned.

11. Procedure for attachment, sale and objections as laid down in C.P.C.—
Formalities will be observed in attachment, sale and adjudicating upon objections similar to
those in force in the execution of Civil decrees, with this difference, that the process issues on
the Criminal side.

12. Attachment of agricultural implements should be rarely resorted to.—Although
agricultural implements are not exempt from distress and sale in realization of a fine, the


--- Page 669 ---
140 High Court Rules and Orders — Vol. IV

—_—
measure is one which should be resorted to with discretion; otherwise it may entail undue
hardship.

13. Objections to attachment.—When an objector comes forward, he should be warned
to the penalties prescribed in Section 207 of the Indian Penal Code for a fraudulent claim to
property to prevent its seizure in satisfaction of fine. After this warning, the objection should be
inquired into and disposed of, either by admitting the claim or referring the objector to a civil
action if his claim seems prima facie groundless.

14. Commission on sale.—The officer employed on the duty of selling property attached
in default of payment of fines will receive a commission at the following rate, to be deduced
from the sale-proceeds:--

if the sale-proceeds do not exceed Rs. 5,000/- at 5 percent.

if the sale-proceeds do not exceed Rs. 5,000/- 5 percent on Rs. 5,000/- and as 1/2

percent on the remainder.

15. Action to be taken subsequent to the realization of a fine. —When a Tehsildar has
realized a fine or part of a fine, in the manner above provided he will forthwith dispose of it as
hereinafter directed in paragraph 19 below, and return the warrant to the Magistrate who issued
it with an endorsement that he has done so. In the endorsement should be noted the date of
payment into the Treasury and the number of the Treasury receipt. On the return of the warrant
the Magistrate will at once notify in the form prescribed, under his hand and seal, the payment
endorsed thereon to the Superintendent of the jail in which the offender is confined, if he is in
prison, and, after causing the necessary entries to be made in his Fine Register and attaching the
warrant to the file of the case, will pass on the papers to the Fine Moharrir with a view to the
results reported by the Tehsildar being noted in the General Fine Register, a fresh warrant being
prepared if further proceedings appear to be called for.

Note:--The notice (see form No. 93 of Rules and Orders, Volume VI-B, Part B-1) of
payment of the Superintendent of the Jail shall be sent by the Magistrate by registered post, or
by a special messenger if the offender is confined in the local jail.

16. Fine may be tendered at any time to Magistrate, Tehsildar and Superintendent of
Jail and District Magistrate.—(i) All Magistrates will, at any stage of the proceedings, receive
fines imposed by themselves or their predecessors in office, if tendered in their Court, and
proceed in the manner described in paragraph 5, and, if the offender is in prison, intimate the
payment in the prescribed way to the Superintendent of the Jail in which he is confined.

(ii) ~~ Magistrates of Districts will likewise receive fines tendered to them in satisfaction of
warrants received from the Courts of Sessions, under the provisions of paragraph 6.

(iii)  Tehsildars will always receive fines by whomsoever tendered and will grant receipts.
These receipts must be in the prescribed form and be signed by the Tehsildar in full, and will
then be admitted by the Magistrate executing the sentence as proof of payment.

(iv) Superintendents of Jails will also receive fines in respect of prisoners in their jails,
and send the money with a report to the Magistrate of the District. The Magistrate of the District
will make over sums so received to the Nazir, to be dealt with according to the provisions of
paragraph 19, and when this has been done, will forward the report of the Superintendent of the
ail, duly endorsed with the date on which the fine was paid into the Treasury and the number of
the Treasury receipt, to the Magistrate executing the sentence, who will inform the Tehsildar,
and cause the necessary entries to be made in his Fine Register and the report to be attached to
the file of the case.

17. Form of receipt of fine. Number of copies be prepared.—A form of receipt has
been prescribed. When a fine is received by a Tehsildar on behalf of another Magistrate, the


--- Page 670 ---
High Court Rules and Orders — Vol. IV 141
————
receipt should be prepared in triplicate; one part should be given to the person paying the fine;
the second part should be sent to the Court which imposed it, the third part being retained by the
Tehsildar himself. Where the fine is paid direct to the Court which imposed it, the receipt need
only be prepared in duplicate, one copy being given to the person paying the fine and the
counterfoil being retained for record by the Court.

Where a fine is remitted by a Superintendent of a Jail to the Magistrate of the District
as provided in sub-paragraph (iv) to paragraph 16, the receipt will also be prepared in duplicate,
one copy being sent to the Superintendent of the Jail and the counterfoil being retained by the
Magistrate of the District. The form of receipt referred to in this paragraph will be found at No.
142 of Part B-111, Rules and Orders, Volume VI-B.

18. Procedure will be followed when fine is paid in another district. —Fines may be
paid in any district, but if paid in any district other than that in which the offender was
sentenced, the following procedure should be carefully observed:--

(a) When a warrant or intimation has been received from the district where the fine was
imposed the amount received or realized should either be at once credited to Government and
intimation sent to the Magistrate of that district, or in case the whole or any part of the fine is to
be paid in compensation or to be credited to any Local Fund, so much should be remitted to the
Magistrate of that District, and intimation sent to him that the remainder has been credited to
Government. In case the fine is only partially realized and it is not clear in what way the amount
should be disposed of, it should be kept in deposit pending instructions from the Magistrate of
the District concerned, to whom reference should at once be made.

(b) In case no warrant or intimation has been received, the amount received or realized
should be placed in deposit and intimation at once sent to the magistrate of the District where the
fine was imposed with a request for instructions as to its disposal.

(©) Any fine, or portion of a fine, which has to be finally credited to Government, should
be credited in the District in which it is levied, and the Magistrate of the District in which the
fine was imposed, should, when communicating, as laid down in clauses (a) and (b) of this
paragraph, with the District Magistrate who has received the fine, notify to him the amount to
be so credited.

d) Unless the payment is made to the Jail authorities, notice of the realization should at
once be sent in the manner prescribed in the note to paragraph 15 to the Superintendent of the
Jail in which the prisoner is confined, either by the Magistrate of the District where the offender
was sentenced, or by the Magistrate of the District where the offender is confined, in case the
fine is paid in that district.

District Officers are not to require the Vakils of Indian States attached to their Courts
to realize fines awarded against offenders whose homes are in foreign territory for offences
committed in British territory. They should merely record the fine and acquaint the offender’s
relatives through the Vakil. If the fine be not paid the prisoner must undergo the term of
imprisonment in default (if any) awarded in the sentence.

19. Sums received by Courts in payments of fine shall be paid into the Treasury.—(i)
Every sum received by a Judicial Officer in payment of fine will be taken charge of by the Nazir
of his Court, or by the Assistant Nazir or other officer performing the duties of Nazir, except in
Honorary Courts where the Honorary Magistrate himself takes charge of such sums until such
time as they can be paid into a Government Treasury. If the officer holds his Court in the
immediate vicinity of a Government Treasury, whether District, Sub-Divisional or Tehsil, the
realizations of each day will be paid into the Treasury at the close of the day. If the officer holds
his Court at a distance from a Government Treasury, sums received in payment of fine will be
paid into the nearest Treasury once a month at least, on the 25th day of each month, and oftener
if the amount received since the last payment exceed Rs. 100/- in all. When the payment into the


--- Page 671 ---
142 High Court Rules and Orders — Vol. IV
————
Treasury is made on account of fines which have been paid direct to the Court which imposed
them, or, if imposed by the Court of Session, to the Magistrate of the District acting under
paragraph 6, the date of payment into the Treasury with the number of the Treasury receipt will
be noted in respect of each fine so paid in the Court’s Fine Register and on the record of the
case.

Sums realized by Honourary Magistrates may be sent to Treasury by money
order in certain cases.—(ii) Sums realized on account of fines or otherwise in Criminal cases,
in the Court of any Honorary Magistrate whose place of sitting is at a distance from a Treasury
or Sub-Treasury, may be remitted to the Treasury by money-order, instead of by messenger, if
the District Magistrate considers it expedient to direct that this course shall be followed in the
case of any such Court.

Re cost of money order.—(iii) The cost of such money order will be debited to
Judicial contingencies.

Directions as to the credit of the sums sent to the Treasury.—(iv) Sums thus paid
into the Treasury will be paid to the credit of Government, or as a deposit, according as the fine
is under the terms of the sentence or the orders relating thereto be credited to Government or to
be paid in compensation or reward.

Refund of fines credited to Government.—(v) Sums paid into the Treasury for
credit to Government should, even in appealable cases, be credited at once to Government, and
will be subject to refund if remitted on appeal or in revision. A form of certificate for refund of
fine has been prescribed. Before the amount of the remitted fine, or any portion of it, can be
refunded, the exact amount realized and credited in the accounts of the Treasury must be
ascertained and certified by the Superintendent of the Deputy Commissioner’s Officer, and the
certificate must be passed for payment by the officer-in-charge of the Treasury to which it is
presented for that purpose.

‘Withdrawal of fines paid in Treasury as deposit.—(vi) Sums paid into the Treasury
as deposits will be withdrawable on the order of the Court executing the sentence, on application
being made therefore by the party or parties entitled to receive the same after the expiry of the
period of appeal or, if an appeal has been presented after the decision of the appeal. When sums
are realized which, under the term of the sentence, are payable in compensation or reward,
intimation should be given to the party or parties concerned by the Court which is executing the
sentence.

Consequences of neglect to follow the directions.—(vii) A strict observance of the
foregoing directions is necessary, as the Code of Criminal Procedure contains no provision for
recovering sums once paid away in in compensation or reward.

20. Statement of fines imposed realized and credited to Government to be sent to the
Accountant-General every month.—(i) Further rules on the subject of crediting and accounting
for fines have been issued by the Accounts Department, and these rules must be strictly
observed. At the close of each month a statement, for the whole District, of all the fines imposed
by Courts, which were realized, and credited to Government during the month, should be
prepared and submitted to the Accountant-General or, if no fines were so realized, a certificate
that no realizations were effected, should be submitted. The statement for the Sessions Court
will be prepared by the District Moharrir of Fines and signed by the Magistrate of the District.
The officer who signs the statement will be responsible for its accuracy. The certifying officer
should be at the same time satisfy himself that realizations excluded from the statement have
been duly accounted for.

Register XV of fine realizations.—(ii) To facilitate the preparation of these
statements and the checking of the items excluded from them a register of fine realizations, No.
XV, will be kept by the District Fine Moharrir for all Courts in the District and for the Sessions


--- Page 672 ---
High Court Rules and Orders — Vol. IV 143
————
Court. The entries in this register should invariably be made at the same time as the
corresponding entries are made in the General Register of Fines, No. XIV, prescribed in
paragraph 4 above. The register should be totalled at the end of each month and should then be
examined and checked by the officer-in-charge of fines with reference to the Treasury certificate
in regard to credit of fines in the Treasury during the month. Register No. XV is not to be
maintained in future by Courts.

21. Duty of Fine Moharrir to draw the attention of the Magistrate to unrealized
fines.—Under the foregoing rules, as each fine has been realized, the Fine Moharrir will have
noted the fact in the proper column of his register, after satisfying himself that the amount has
been credited to Government or otherwise duly dealt with; if a Tehsildar has reverted that there
are no effects, this also will have been noted; if payment has been made this will also have been
noted. It is also the duty of the Fine Moharrir, from time to time, to draw the attention of the
Magistrate to unrealized fines, in order that fresh processes may issue as assets are indicated.

22. Quarterly statement of fine realized to be sent to Sessions Judge. Action to be
taken by Sessions Judge.—At the close of each quarter, a return will be submitted to the
Sessions Judge, in the prescribed form, showing the progress which has been made during the
quarter in realizing the fines imposed by his Court. The realizations shown in this return should
be carefully noted in the appropriate column of the Sessions Court’s Fine Register, and
explanations should be called for or instructions issued in cases in which failure to realize seems
to call for explanation or orders. The result of this return will be embodied in the Sessions
Judge's Annual Statements.

23. Illegal detention after the fine has been recovered should be prevented.—Care
should be taken to prevent illegal detentions in prison. When the Superintendent of a Jail
receives a fine or a notice, in the prescribed form, that a fine has been realized, he will note the
realization in the warrant of imprisonment, and, if the prisoner is entitled to his release, will
release him and return the warrant, duly endorsed, to the Magistrate.

24. Precautions to be taken as to noting of fines as to prisoners transferred to
another jail.—Whenever prisoners under sentence of fine are transferred to a Jail in another
district, care should he taken to notify on the back of the warrant the amount of fine realized, if
any realization has been effected. The name of a transferred prisoner who is sentenced to fine
must necessarily remain on the Fine Register of the District in which sentence was passed until
the whole of the fine has been paid or until the period within which it can be realized has
expired.

25. A general result of the directions.—A careful observance of the foregoing directions
will result in the following checks:--

L- Duty of officer-in-charge of the Fine department to check the District Fine
Register.—Every fine imposed by Courts exercising jurisdiction in the District will
be entered in the Fine Registers.

IL- When the fine has been paid into Court, the fact will appear in the proper register,
under the hand of the Judge or Magistrate, and on the file of the case.

IIL- In other cases, the proceedings of the Tehsildar will show what steps have been taken
for forcible levy.

IV.- Each realization will be checked by the Fine Moharrir.

V.- The realizations of each Court will be checked and certified once a month by the
Presiding Officer of the Court, or, in the case of fines imposed by the Sessions Court,
by the Magistrate of the District.

VL- An inspection of the District Register of Fines will always at once show every stage


--- Page 673 ---
144 High Court Rules and Orders — Vol. IV

————
of each transaction, and quarterly, half-yearly or annual audit can be held of the
whole fine transactions of the period, by comparing each entry of the register with the
record of the case and the credit in the Treasury. The officer-incharge of the Fine
Department should occasionally test the correctness of the entries in the District Fine
Register by comparing some of them with the records of the cases to which they
relate and with the credits in the Treasury.

26. Some directions apply to fines imposeds by Civil Courts for contempt of Court.—
It will be observed that fines imposed by Civil Courts under the powers conferred by Section
480 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, must be dealt with in accordance with the instructions
laid down in this Chapter so far as they are applicable. It will accordingly be necessary for
Courts of purely Civil jurisdiction to keep up Criminal Register No. XIV.

27. Appointment of an officer to supervise the Fine Department. Duty of District
Magistrate and controlling officer’s re-supervision.—District Magistrates should invariably
appoint an Assistant or an Extra Assistant Commissioner to supervise the Fine Department, and
should themselves, from time to time, see that these directions are understood and carried out.
Whenever any Court is inspected by a controlling officer, special attention should be given to
the subject.


--- Page 674 ---
High Court Rules and Orders — Vol. IV 145
——
CHAPTER 12
I- FORMS OF OATHS AND AFFIRMATIONS TO BE ADMINISTERED TO
WITNESSES
Whether oath or affirmation Form of oath or Form of oath or affirmation to be

affirmation to be administered to a Witness in a
administered to Witness in | criminal case tried by a Jury.
civil cases and in criminal

cases (other than cases
tried by a Jury) or in a
proceeding before any
other authority empowered
to administer an oath or
affirmation and to take
evidence.
For a person who has an | 1 solemnly affirm that the | I solemnly affirm that the
objection to making an oath | evidence which I shall | evidence which I shall give to the
or solemn affirmation, or | give to the Court (or as | Court and Jury touching the
who, by reason of immature | the case may be), in this | matters in question between our
age, on of the want of or | case (or matter) shall be | Sovereign Lord the King-
defect in religious belief, | the truth, the whole truth, | emperor and the prisoner at the
ought not, in the opinion of | and nothing but the truth. | bar, shall be the truth, the whole
the Court or person truth, and nothing but the truly.
authorized to administer an
oath or affirmation, to be
permitted to take an oath or
solemn affirmation.
For a person whois a Hindu | 1 solemnly affirm in the | I solemnly affirm in the presence
or Muhammadan or who | presence of Almighty | of Almighty God that the
has an objecttion to making | God, that the evidence | evidence which I shall give to the
an oath. which I shall give to the | Court and Jury touching the
Court (or as the case may | matters in question between our
be) in this case (or matter) | Soverign Lord the king-emperor
shall be the truth, the | and the prisoner at the bar, shall
whole truth, and nothing | eb the truth, the whole truth, and
but the truth. nothing but the truth.
For a person who is not a | 1 solemnly swear that the | I solemnly swear that the
Hindu or Muhammadan and | evidence which 1 shall | evidence which I shall give to the
who has no objection to | give to the court (or as the | Court and Jury touching the
making an oath. case may be) in this case | matters in question between our
(or matter) shall be the | Sovereign Lord the King-
truth, the whole truth, and | Emperor and the prisoner at the
nothing but the truth; so | bar, shall be the truth the whole
help me God! truth, and nothing but the truth
so help me God!


--- Page 675 ---
146 High Court Rules and Orders — Vol. IV
——
II —- FORMS OF OATHS AND AFFIRMATIONS TO BE ADMINISTERED TO
WITNESSES
Whether oath or affirmation Form of oath or Form of oath or affirmation to be

affirmation to be administered to a Interpreter in a
administered to an criminal case tried by a Jury.
Interpreter in civil cases
and in criminal cases
(other than cases tried by a
Jury) or in a proceeding
before any person
authorized to administer
an oath or affirmation and
to take evidence.
For a person who has an | 1 solemnly affirm that I | I solemnly affirm that I shall well
objection to making an oath | shall well and truly | and truly interpret what is
or solemn affirmation, or | interpret what is deposed | deposed by the witness as
who, by reason of want of | by the witness before the | between our Sovereign Lord the
or defect in religious belief, | Court (or as the case may | King-Emperor and the prisoner
ought not, in the opinion of | be) and as may be | at the bar.
the Court or person | required by the Court.
authorized to administer an
oath or affirmation, to be
permitted to take an oath or
solemn affirmation.
For a person who is a | 1 solemnly affirm in the | I solemnly affirm in the presence
Hindu and Muhammadan or | presence of Almighty | of Almighty God, that I shall
who has an objection to | God, that the evidence | well and truly interpret what is
making an oath. which I shall well and | deposed by the witness as
truly interpret what is | between our Sovereign Lord the
deposed by the witness | King-Emperor and the prisoner
before the Court (or as the | at the bar.
case may be) and as may
be required by the Court.
For a person who is not a | 1 solemnly swear that I | I solemnly swear that I shall well
Hindu or Muhammadan and | shall well and truly | and truly interpret what is
who has no objection to | interpret what is deposed | deposed by the witness as
making an oath. by the witness before the | between our sovereign Lord the
Court (or as the case may | King-emperor and the prisoner at
be) and as may be | the bar; so help me God!
required by the Court; so
help me God!


--- Page 676 ---
High Court Rules and Orders — Vol. IV 147

————
III - FORMS OF OATHS AND AFFIRMATIONS TO BE ADMINISTERED TO JURORS

Whether oath or affirmation Form of oath or affirmation to be administered to a Juror

in a criminal case tried by a Jury

A — SIMPLE AFFIRMATION

For a person who has an | 1 solemnly affirm that I shall well and truly try, and a

objection to making an oath or | true verdict give, between our Sovereign Lord the King-

solemn affirmation, or who, by | Emperor and the prisoner at the bar according to the

reason of the want of or defect in | evidence.

religious belief, ought not, in the

opinion of the Court or person

authorized to administer an oath

or affirmation, to be permitted to

make an oath or solemn

affirmation.

B - SOLEMNLY AFFIRMATION

For a person who is a Hindu or | 1 solemnly affirm in the presence of Almighty God, that I

Muhammadan or who has an | shall well and truly try, and a true verdict give between

objection to making an oath. our Sovereign Lord the King-Emperor and the prisoner at

the bar according to the evidence.

C—- OATH

For a person who is not a Hindu | 1 solemnly swear that I shall well and truly try, and a true

or Muhammadan, and who has | verdict give, between our Sovereign Lord the King-

no objection to making an oath. | Emperor and the prisoner at the bar, according to the

evidence, so help me God!
PART B — AFFIDAVITS

1. Relevant law.—The provisions of the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908, on the subject
of affidavits, are contained in Section 139 and Order XIX of the Code.

2. Superior Court may send affidavit for attestation to a lower Court.—When an
application for the attestation of an affidavit is presented to any Court superior to the Court of
Sub-Judge, 4th Class, such Court may, if convenient, refer it for disposal to an inferior Court
sitting at the same place.

3. Affidavit exempted from Court-fee.—No Court-fee or other stamp is required upon
an affidavit made for the immediate purpose of being filed and used in any Court or before an
officer of any Court (Indian Stamp Act, 1899, Schedule 1, Article 4, exdmption (b) and no fee
has been prescribed as chargeable for the attestation of an affidavit except as laid down in
paragraph 5 below.

4. Joint affidavit.—There is no legal objection to several persons joining in a single
affidavit in whole or in part; but Courts or Magistrates should, in such cases, be careful that


--- Page 677 ---
148 High Court Rules and Orders — Vol. IV
————
cach declarant deposes separately, and that the certificate is adapted to the actual circumstances
of the particular case.

“5. Oath Commissioners, their appointment, fees, etc.—(i) Under Section 139(b) of
the Code of Civil Procedure approximately two to four legal practitioners at the Headquarters of
cach district and one at each station, where there is a Subordinate Judge, are appointed as
Commissioners for the purpose of administering oaths and affirmations.

(ii) Such Commissioners are ordinarily appointed from among legal practitioners of not
less than three years’ standing at the Bar. They may continue as such until the expiry of thirteen
years reckoned from the date of first admission as a legal practitioner, provided that their work
is satisfactory, or until the further orders of the High Court, whichever is earlier.

Note:~-The thirteen years referred to in this clause include period during which a legal
practitioner does not practice.

(ili) Commissioners may charge a remuneration of annas eight in cash for each affidavit
and shall keep a register in the form prescribed in paragraph 7 infra in which all affidavits shall
be entered. A written receipt for the amount paid shall be given by the Commissioner to the
deponent. The receipt shall be in a printed form consisting of foil and counter-foil, the foil being
handed over to the person paying the money and the counterfoil being kept by the Commissioner
for purposes of inspection.

The above charge will be in addition to any stamp duty payable on the affidavit under
the Indian Stamp Act, 1899, Schedule I, Article 4.

Note:-- The Commissioner will be entitled to an additional fee of Rs. 1-8-8 from a
deponent when he is required to attend the deponent’s residence.

5-A. All Official Receivers in the Punjab and Delhi, except the Special Official Receiver
attached to the High Court, have been appointed ex-officio Oath Commissioners in their
respective districts. They will continue as such for the period they hold the office of Official
Receiver or until the further orders of the High Court, whichever is earlier.

(High Court Notification No. 205R/X-B-9(b), dated the 16th July, 1943).

6. Attestation of affidavits by process serving and other officials.—In order to
facilitate the verification of affidavits of serving officers made under Order V, Rule 19, or Order
XVI, Rule 10, of the Code of Civil Procedure, the Provincial Government has empowered the
Court of the Subordinate Judge of the First Class in charge of the Nazarat to appoint an officer
subordinate to itself to administer oaths to process-servers, bailiffs, naib-nazirs and nazirs
making affidavits of service of summons, notices and other processes under the Code of Civil
Procedure. (Punjab Government Notification No. 216-19, dated the 20th June, 1931). In the
case of such affidavits and of all other affidavits made by officers of the Courts in their official
capacity, no application, such as is referred to in paragraph 2 is necessary.

7. Register of affidavits.—A register of affidavits, in the following form, should be
maintained at the head-quarters of every district and at each Court at a distance from
headquarters in which every application to have an affidavit attested and every affidavit verified,
should be entered: ---

FORM OF REGISTER
REGISTER OF AFFIDAVITS ATTESTED IN THE COURT OF THE
IN THE DISTTRICT
[HE FE I FT FE HC BA


--- Page 678 ---
High Court Rules and Orders — Vol. IV 149
—
| 8 2 oe = 7
on = 3 — H
£ Elgg E 5S 5 £8
£ wz (22% 3S £5 ow C2
2 | £2 [583 | |g: 3 EE
3) $5 ESE = SEE S gS 5
Poy Eu =o 28 = 2E 38 on 28
s |B | 28 |2Bo¥g | SF |E=285 | ES £3
Zz £5 en |[68g2 | BE hh] jo} 5
j=) Rp] SE eS zs | S95 EB mE A] 28
3 [Ez 28 E288 | 28 PE5EE | EE ge
5 (88 | 82 (82°52 | EF | E5548 | EE cE
218% | 55 E327 |3e | cdf [3% | Tg
5 Ss 82% 5 ZEEE o
5 Es 55% | 8 SE H £3
2 Z4 |ggd 3 ERE 2 §%
i §|52 Z| 5% a 52
ZE a ° 7 O
8. Title of affidavits.—(i) Every affidavit to be used in a Civil Court shall be entitled: --
“In the Court of at (naming the Court and place of
sitting).

(i) If there be a cause in Court, the affidavit in support of or in opposition to an

application respecting it shall also be entitled in the cause, thus:
PLAINTIFF
against
DEFENDANT.
Claim:
(naming the parties and stating the nature of the claim).
(iii) If there be no cause in Court, the affidavit shall be entitled: --
“In the matter of the petition of
(name) praying
(brief statement of subject)
(iv) Every affidavit shall be further entitled: --
“Affidavit of (name) made on this
day of 19 (date) before
(name of attesting officer), at ” (place).

9. Contents of affidavits.—(i) Every affidavit containing any statement of facts shall be
divided into paragraphs, and every paragraph shall be numbered consecutively, and, as nearly as
may be, shall be confined to a distinct portion of the subject.

(ii) Every person, other than a plaintiff or defendant in a suit in which the application is
made, making any affidavit, shall be described in such manner as will serve to identify him
clearly; that is to say, by the statement of his full name, the name of his father, his profession or
trade, and the place of his residence.

(ili) When the declarant in any affidavit speaks to any facts within his own knowledge, he
must do so directly and positively, using the word ‘I affirm’ or ‘I make oath and say’.


--- Page 679 ---
150 High Court Rules and Orders — Vol. IV
————

(iv) When the particular fact is not within the declarant’s own knowledge, but is stated
from information obtaining from others, the declarant must use the expression I am informed’,
— and, if such be the case, should and ‘and verily believe it to be true,” — or he may state the
source from which he received such information. When the statement rests on facts disclosed in
document, or copies of documents procured from any Court of Justice or other source, the
declarant shall specify the source from which they were procured, and state his information or
belief as to the truth of the facts disclosed in such documents.

10. Affidavits generally to be confined to facts which are within defendant’s
knowledge.—Attention is drawn to Order XIX, Rule 3, which lays down that affidavits shall be
confined to such facts, as, the deponent is able of his own knowledge to prove, except,
interlocutory applications (See Order XXXIX, Rules 6 to 10), on which statements of his belief
may be admitted: provided that the grounds thereof are stated.

11.  Identification.of deponent.—Every person making an affidavit shall, if not
personally known to the Court, Magistrate or other officer appointed to administer the oath or
affirmation, be identified to such Court, Magistrate or officer by some person known to him;
and such Court, Magistrate or officer shall specify, at the foot of the affidavit, the name and
description of the person by whom the identification is made, as well as the time and place of
the identification and of the making of the affidavit.

12. Mode of attestation.—The Court, Magistrate, or other officer as aforesaid, before
whom an affidavit is made, shall certify at the foot of the affidavit the fact of the making of Such
affidavit before him, and shall enter the date and subscribe his signature to such certificate, and
shall, for the purpose of identification, mark, date, and initial every exhibit referred to in the
affidavit. The name of the verifying authority must be signed in full, and care must be taken that
his proper designation as a Civil Court or Magistrate is added.

13. Female deponents.—An affidavit purporting to have been made by a female
declarant, who has not appeared unveiled before the Court, Magistrate, or other officer as
aforesaid, before whom the affidavit is made, shall not be certified, unless and until she has
been duly identified before, and an affidavit of her identity by the person identifying her has
been made before, and certified by such Court, Magistrate or officer.

14.  Attesting Officer’s duty.—If any person making an affidavit appears to the Court,
Magistrate or other officer administering the oath or affirmation, to be ignorant of the language
in which it is written, or to be illiterate, or not fully to understand, the contents of the affidavit,
such Court, Magistrate or officer shall cause the affidavit to be read and explained to him in a
language which both he and such Court, Magistrate or officer understand; either doing so
himself, or causing another person to do so in his presence. When an affidavit is read and
explained as herein provided, such Court, Magistrate or other officer as aforesaid shall certify in
writing at the foot of the affidavit that it has been so read and explained, and that the declarant
seemed perfectly to understand the same at the time of making it.

15.  Attesting, signing and verification of affidavits.—Every affidavit shall be signed or
marked and verified at foot by the declarant and attested by the Court, Magistrate or other
officer administering the oath or affirmation, the verification by the declarant shall be in one of
the forms attached hereto, and shall be signed or marked by the declarant. The attestation of the
Court, Magistrate also be in the form prescribed below.

16. Manner of administering oath to deponent.—In administering an oath or
affirmation to the declarant in the case of any affidavit under the Code of Civil Procedure, the
Court, Magistrate or other officer appointed in that behalf shall be guided by the rules under the
Indian Oaths Act, 1873, printed in Part A of this Chapter and shall follow the form of
verification by oath or affirmation hereto appended.

I — FORM OF VERIFICATION OF OATH OR AFFIRMATION


--- Page 680 ---
High Court Rules and Orders — Vol. IV 151
—
(VIDE PARAGRAPH 15 ABOVE)

OATH
I solemnly swear that this my declaration is true, that it conceals nothing, and that no
part of it is false — so help me God!
Affirmation
I solemnly affirm that this my declaration is true, that is conceal nothing, and that no
part of it is false.
II.— FORM OF CERTIFICATE
(VIDE PARAGRAPHS 12, 14 AND 15 ABOVE)
Certified that the above was declared. on (a) before me this (5),
day of (o) 19, at (4) in the district of (e) by
0) who is (2)
(full signature) A.B.,
(Office) District Judge (or as the case may be) of i

(a) here enter oath/affirmation as the case may be,

(®) date,

(©) month,

(& place,

(6) name of district

(fH full name and description of declarant,

(2) here enter “personally known to me” or “identified at time and place of identification)
by (full name and description of person making the identification, who is personally
known to me”.

(11-A)
The exhibits marked A, B, C, (as the case may be) above-referred to are annexed
hereto under this date and my initial.
(11-13)
Certified further that this affidavit has been read and explained to
(name) the declarant who seemed perfectly to understand the same at the time
of marking thereof.


--- Page 681 ---
152 High Court Rules and Orders — Vol. IV
—————
CHAPTER 14
LEGAL PROCEEDINGS BY OR AGAINST JUDICIAL OFFICERS

1. Institution of proceedings by Crown servant against defamatory attacks on his
public acts with the sanction of Government.—Without obtaining the authorization of the
Government to which he is immediately subordinate, no servant of the crown is permitted to
have recourse to the Courts for the vindication of his public acts or of his character as a public
functionary, from defamatory attacks. In giving authority to institute proceedings the Provincial
Government concerned will decide whether the circumstances of the case are such that the
Government should bear the cost of the proceedings, Civil or Criminal, or leave the officer to
institute the prosecution or suit at his own expense, and in the latter case it will also determine,
in the event of the matter being decided by the Courts in the officer’s favour whether he should
be recouped by Government the whole or any part of the cost of the action.

2. No sanction required for private cases.—The ruling above laid down does not affect
an officer’s right to defend his private dealings or behavour in any way that he may be advised;
but -his official reputation is in the charge of the Government which he serves, and it is for that
Government to decide in each case whether the institution of proceedings to vindicate his public
acts or character is necessary or expedient.

3. Detailed rules.—Detailed rules in connection with suits by or against Public Officers
will be found in Part III, paragraphs 20 to 23, of the Punjab Law Department Manual, 1926
(pages 61 to 63).

4. No criminal prosecution of a Crown servant for official acts without sanction of
the Governor.—Attention is also invited to Section 197 of the Code of Criminal Procedure,
which prohibits any Criminal Court from taking cognizance of an offence alleged to have been
committed by a Judicial Officer while acting or purporting to act in the discharge of his official
duty, except with the previous sanction of the Governor of the Province exercising his individual
judgment; and to Section 80 of the Code of Civil Procedure, which requires two months’ notice
of a suit against a public officer in respect of any act purporting to be done by him in his official
capacity.

5. Report about legal proceedings by or against judicial officer in his official
capacity to be sent Registrar.—A detailed report in respect of any legal proceedings civil or
criminal which may be brought by or against a Judicial Officer in his official capacity, should be
submitted through the usual channels to the Registrar, High Court, by the officer concerned, as
soon as the question of their institution arises.


--- Page 682 ---
High Court Rules and Orders — Vol. IV 153
————
CHAPTER 15
FOREIGN JURISDICTION
PART A —GENRAL

1. Jurisdiction in Foreign States.—British Courts in Foreign States are regulated by
orders of the Governor-General in Council in exercise of the powers conferred by the Indian
(Foreign Jurisdiction) Order in Council 1902 as amended by the Indian (Foreign Jurisdiction)
Order in Council, 1937. The functions of the Crown in relation to Indian States are now
exercised by His Excellency the Crown Representative. These two orders are published in
Appendix A and B to this part.

2. Extradition.—Volume III, Chapter 16, “Extradition and Foreign Jurisdiction” should
be consulted with regard to extradition and the jurisdiction of British Courts in respect of
offences committed abroad.

3. Service of processes.—Rules regarding service of processes in India and Foreign
States will be found in Chapters 7 and 8 of this volume regarding processes.

4. Execution.—Rules regarding the execution of decrees and service of summonses of
Courts in Indian or other Foreign States by British Courts and vice versa will be found in
Volume 1, Chapter 12-S, and Volume IV, Chapters 7-F and 8-C.

5. Commission and Letters of Request.—For rules regarding issue of Commissions
and Letters of Request to Indian and other Foreign States see Volume I, Chapter 10, and
Volume III, Chapter 9.


--- Page 683 ---
154 High Court Rules and Orders — Vol. IV
————
APPENDIX A
INDIAN (FOREIGN JURISDICTION) ORDER IN COUNCIL, 1902
AT THE COURT AT BUCKINGHAM PALACE
The 11th day of June 1962
PRESENT:

The King’s Most Excellent Majesty,

Lord President,

Earl of Kintore,

Lord Balfour of Burleigh,

Sir John Winfield Bouser.

WHERAS by treaty, grant, usage, sufferance, and other lawful means, His Majesty
the King has powers and jurisdiction, exercised on His behalf by the Governor-General of India
in Council, in India and in certain territories adjacent thereto;

Now, therefore, His Majesty, by virtue and in exercise of the powers by the Foreign
Jurisdiction Act, 1890, or otherwise in His Majesty vested, is pleased, by and with the advice of
His Privy Council, to order, and it is hereby ordered as follows: --

1. This Order may be cited as the Indian (foreign Jurisdiction) Order in Council, 1902.

2. The limits of this Order are the territories of India outside British India, and any other
territories which may be declared by His Majesty in Council to be territories, in which
jurisdiction is exercised by or on behalf of His Majesty through the Governor-General of India
in council, or some authority subordinate to him, including the territorial waters of any such
territories.

3. The Governor-General of India in Council may, on His Majesty’s behalf, exercise
any power or jurisdiction which His Majesty or the Governor-General of India in Council for
the time being has within the limits of this Order, and may delegate any such power or
jurisdiction to any servant of the British Indian Government in such manner, and to such extent,
as the Governor-General in Council from time to time thinks fit.

4. The Governor-General in council may make such rules and orders as may seem
expedient for carrying this Order into effect, and in particular: --

(a) for determining the law and procedure to be observed, whether by applying with r
without modification all or any of the provisions of any enactment in force elsewhere,
or otherwise;

(b) for determining the persons who are to exercise jurisdiction, either generally or in
particular classes of cases, and the powers to be exercised by them;

(c) for determining the Courts, authorities, Judges, and Magistrates, by whom, and for
regulating the manner in which, any jurisdiction, auxiliary or incidental to or
consequential on the jurisdiction exercised under this Order, is to be exercised in
British India;

(d) for regulating the amount, collection and application of fees.

5. All appointments, delegations, certificates, requisitions, rules’ notifications,
processes, orders and directions made or issued under or in pursuance of any enactment of the
Indian Legislature regulating the exercise of foreign jurisdiction, are hereby confirmed, and
shall have effect as if made or issued under this Order.

6. The Interpretation Act, 1889, shall apply to the construction of this Order.
(Government of Indian Notification No. 3917-1. A., dated 12th September 1902, published in


--- Page 684 ---
High Court Rules and Orders — Vol. IV 155
—
Gazette of India, 1902, Part I, pages 667-68).


--- Page 685 ---
156 High Court Rules and Orders — Vol. IV
————
APPENDIX B
THE INDIAN (FOREIGN JURISDICTION) ORDER 1937
AT THE COURT AT BUCKINGHAM PALACE
The 18th day of March 1937
PRESENT:

The King’s Most Excellent Majesty in Council.

WHEREAS by the proviso to sub-section (1) of section two of the Government of
India Act, 1935, it is provided that any powers connected with the exercise of the functions of
the Crown in its relations with Indian States shall, in India, if not exercised by His Majesty, be
exercised only by, or by persons acting under the authority of, His Majesty’s Representative for
the exercise of those functions of the Crown:

AND WHEREAS provision is made by the said Act and the Government of Burma
Act, 1935, as to the authorities which are respectively to exercise on behalf of His Majesty the
rights, authority and jurisdiction of His Majesty in, and in relation to, the tribal areas in India,
and in and in relation to, areas in Burma which are not part of the territories of His Majesty:

AND WHEREAS it is accordingly expedient to amend the Indian (Foreign
Jurisdiction) Order in Council, 1902 (in this Order referred to as” the principal Order”):

Now, therefore, His Majesty, by virtue and in exercise of the powers by the Foreign
Jurisdiction Act, 1890, or otherwise in His Majesty vested, is pleased by and with the advice of
His Privy Council to order, and it is hereby ordered as follows: ---

(1) This Order may be cited as the Indian (Foreign Jurisdiction Order in Council, 1937.

@ (i) As from the commencement of Part II of the Government of India Act, 1935, the

powers conferred by the principal Order on the Governor-General in council shall, so
far as they are connected with the exercise of the functions of the Crown in its
relations with Indian States, be powers of His Majesty’s Representative for the
exercise of those functions of the Crown, and he may delegate those powers to such
extent and in such manner as he thinks fit.
(ii) The person appointed to be His Majesty’s Representative for the exercise of those
functions of the Crown may, before the commencement of Part III of the said Act,
make any rules, orders, delegations and appointments and issue any other instruments
which he would have power to make or issue after the commencement of part III of
the said Act, but no such rule, order, delegation or appointment shall come into force
until the commencement of Part III of the said Act.

(iii) Orders and other instruments made and executed in the name of the Crown

Representative shall be authenticated in such manner as may be specified in the Rules

to be made by him and the validity of an Order or Instrument which is so

authenticated shall not be called in question on the ground that it is not an Order or
instrument made by the Crown Representative.
3. As from the commencement of Part III of the said Act and the Government of Burma

Act, 1935, the Principal Order shall cease to have effect as respects the tribal areas in

India and any areas in Burma, without prejudice, however, to the validity of anything

previously done thereunder:--

Provided that any rules, orders, delegations, appointments or other instruments
made or issued under the said Order shall continue in force, except so far as revoked
or varied by the authority competent for the purpose under the Government of India
Act, 1935, or the Government of Burma Act, 1935, as the case may be.


--- Page 686 ---
High Court Rules and Orders — Vol. IV 157
—
4. Save as aforesaid, the powers conferred by the principal Order on the Governor-
General in Council shall continued to be exercisable on behalf of His Majesty by the
Governor-General in Council until the establishment of the Federation of India and
shall thereupon become exercisable on behalf of His Majesty by the Governor-
General of India.
5. The Interpretation Act, 1889, shall apply to the construction of this Order.


--- Page 687 ---
158 High Court Rules and Orders — Vol. IV
————
PART B — JUSTICES OF THE PEACE FOR THE PUNJAB STATE; CRIMINAL LAW
AND PROCEDURE
APPLICABLE
(a) Crown Representative’s Notification No. 323-1, B, dated the 9th December, 1937.

Appointment of Justices.—In exercise of the powers conferred by the Indian (Foreign
Jurisdiction) Order in Council, 1937, and of all other powers enabling him in that behalf,
the Crown Representative is pleased, in supersession of the Notification of the Government of
India in the late Foreign and Political Department No. 674-167-1, dated the 24th April, 1923,
to appoint the officers for the time being holding the offices specified in the first column of
the Schedule hereto annexed, being European British subjects, to be Justices of the Peace
within the territories of the States and Estates entered in the second column of the Schedule
opposite their respective names and to direct that the High Court of Judicature at Lahore shall be
the Court to which such officers shall commit European British subjects for trial.

SCHEDULE

The Hon'ble Resident for the Punjab States. Bahawalpur, Chamba, Dujana, Faridkot, Jind,
Kapurthala, Khairpur, Loharu, Maler-kotla,
Mandi, Nabha, Pataudi, Patiala and Suket.

Secretary to the Hon’ble the Resident

for the Punjab States.

The Political Agent, Punjab Hill

States Agency. Baghal, Baghat, Balsan, Bashahr, Bhaji,
Bilsapur, Bija, Darkoti, Delath Estate, Dhadi
Estate, Dhami, Ghund Estates, Jubbal,
Kalsia, Keonthal, Khaneti Estate, Koti
Estate, Kumbharsian, Kunihar, Kuthar,
Madan Estate, Mahlog, Mangal, Nalagarh,
Ratesh Estate, Rawingarh Estae, Sangri,
Sirmur, Tehri (Garhwal). Tharoch, and
Theog Estate.

(b) Justices of the Peace to commit for trial to the High Court having jurisdiction

Government of India Notification No. 582-D., dated the 26th January, 1917 as
amended by Notification No. 881-1B., dated the 24th May, 1917.—In exercise of the powers
conferred by the Indian (Foreign Jurisdiction) Order in Council, 1902, and of all other powers
enabling him in that behalf, and in supersession of the notification of the Government of
India in the Foreign Department, No. 2616-1, dated the 6th August, 1890, the Governor-
General in Council is pleased to direct that a Justice of the Peace for the time being in any Native
State, Territory or Chiefship specified in the notifications of the Government of India in the
Foreign and Political Department, Nos. 580-D, and 581-D, dated the 26th January, 1917, shall
commit for trial to the High Court which under those notifications has original and appellate
criminal jurisdiction in pursuance of Section 109, sub-section (1) of the Government of India
Act, 1915 (5 & 6 Geo. V., Ch. 61), over European British subjects (for the time being within) such
State, Territory or Chiefship.

(c) Justices of the Peace invested with powers of Magistrates of the Ist Class and to hold
inquests

Government of India Notification No. 391-D, dated the 16th January 1917, as amended
by Notification No. 881-LR, dated 24th May, 1917.—In exercise of the powers conferred by the
India (Foreign Jurisdiction) Order in Council, 1902 and of all other powers enabling him in
that behalf of India in the Foreign Department, No. 680-1. B., dated the 19th March, 1912, the


--- Page 688 ---
High Court Rules and Orders — Vol. IV 159
—
Governor-General in Council is pleased to direct:--

(1) that any European British subject appointed either by name or by virtue of his
office to be a Justice of Peace in or for any country or place beyond the limits of
British India shall have, in regard to European British subjects and persons
accused of having committed offences jointly with European British
subjects, and persons accused of having committed offences jointly with
European British subjects, all the powers of a Magistrate of the Ist Class under
the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1898 (V of 1898), and in addition all powers
under Section 186 and 190 of the said Code;

(2) that any European British subject appointed either by name or by virtue of his
office to be a Justice of the Peace in or for any country or place beyond the
limits of British India shall have power to hold inquests under Section 147 of
the said Code.

(d) Criminal law and procedure of British India applicable to British subjects in the territories
outside British India in which jurisdiction is exercised by the Governor-General in council
Government of India No.1863-1-A., dated the 13th May, 1904, as amended by No.184-1,
dated the 20th March, 1930.—In exercise of the powers conferred by the Indian (Foreign
Jurisdiction) Order in Council, 1902, the Governor-General in Council is pleased, with effect
from the Ist day of June 1904 to direct that, for the purposes of any power or jurisdiction
exercised under that Order, the law relating to offences and to criminal procedure for the
time being in force except Section 443 to 447 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1898 (Act
V of 1898) in British India shall, subject as to procedure to such modifications as the
Governor-General in Council from time to time directs, apply, so far as applicable, to all subject of
His Majesty.
(e) Jurisdiction of High Courts over European British Subjects in Indian States

Government of India Notification No. 580-D, dated the 26th January, 1917.—In
exercise of the powers conferred by Section 109, sub-section (1) of the Government of India Act,
1915 (5 & 6 Geo. V, Ch. 61), and in supersession of the notification of the Government of India
in the Foreign department, No. 853- LB., dated the 16th April, 1913, as amended by the
notification of the Government of India in the Foreign and Political Department, No. 1589-L.B.,
dated the 2nd August 1916, the Governor General in Council is pleased to direct that original
and appellate criminal jurisdiction over European British subjects of His Majesty (for the time
being within) the territories of the States of India named below shall, until the Governor-General
in Council otherwise orders, be exercised by the High Courts of Juridicature established at Fot
William in Bengal, Madras, Bombay, Alahabad and Patna and Lahore respectively, as follows:--

pr

(By the High Court of Judicature at Lahore In:--

Jammu and Kashmir.

Kalat.

Las Bela.

The territories administered by the Agent of the Governor-General in Balochistan as

such Agent.

The States in the political controlled of the Government of the Punjab.

The States within the political charge of the Agent to the Governor-General, Punjab

States (now the Hon'ble the Resident for the Punjab States).
The territories administered by the Agent to the Governor-General, North-West


--- Page 689 ---
160 High Court Rules and Orders — Vol. IV
—
Frontier Province, as such Agent).

As amended b Notification:--

No. 880-LB., dated 24th May, 1917.

No. 90-B.S., dated the 1st April, 1919.

No. 274-X, dated 23rd April, 1930.

No. 149-1, dated 1st April, 1913.

No. 157, dated Ist April, 1933.

No. 172-LB., dated 18th March, 1927.

PART C - POWERS UNDER ADMINISTRATOR-GENERAL’S ACT

Central Government, Home Department, Notification No. 202/37-II, dated the
8th November 1939

1. High Court.—In pursuance of sub-clause (j) of clause (2) of Section 2 of the
Official Trustees Act6, 1913 (II of 1913) and sub-clause (j) of clause (12) of Section 2 of the
Administrator-General’s Act, 1913 (III of 1913), and in supersession of the Notification of the
Government of India, in the Home Department Nos. 1823-C.and 1824-C., dated the 13th
March, 1914, and in the foreign and Political Department, Nos. 1449-D and 1450-D., dated
the 19th March, 1914, the Central Government is pleased to appoint, in relation to British
subjects in the Indian States or parts of Indian States specified in column 1 of the annexed
Schedule, the court specified in the corresponding entry in column 2 thereof to be the High
Court for the purposes of the said Acts:

Provided that all proceedings pending in any court at the date of this notification shall

be carried on as if this notification had not been issued.
SCHEDULE
1 2
Indian States Court

(5) The States and Estates of the

Punjab Station Agency (including

the Punjab Hill States Agency). The High Court at Lahore

Jammu and Kashmir (including

the Gilgit Agency).

2. District Judge.—The following Notification of the Government of India
provides for the discharge of the duties imposed on a District Judge by section 64 of the
Administrator-General’s Act (II of 1874):-

Government of India Notification No. 3542-L, dated the 21h August 1891.—In exercise
of the powers conferred by Sections 4 and 5 of the Foreign Jurisdiction and Extradition Act (XXI
of 1879) (now Indian Jurisdiction Orders 1902 and 1937) and of all other powers enabling him in
this behalf, the Governor-General in Council is pleased to declare that the powers and duties
which are conferred and imposed on a District Judge by judge by section 64 of the Administrator
General's Act (II of 1874), as amended by Section 13 Act II of 1890 (now Act III of 1913), shall,
in the dominions of Princes and States in India in alliance with Her Majesty, be respectively
conferred upon and discharged by the following officers:--

(a) In dominion in or for which a District, Court has been established or continued by

the Governor-General in Council, the Judge of that Court: provided that when


--- Page 690 ---
High Court Rules and Orders — Vol. IV 161
————
more than one officer exercise the powers of a District Judge in any such dominion, it
shall be competent for the officer who exercise in that dominion the powers of a
District Judge in any such dominion, it shall be competent for the officer who
exercise in that dominion the powers of a High Court to determine by whom the
aforesaid powers and duties shall be exercised in any particular case or within any
specified area in that dominion; and
(b) In all other cases, the Political Agent (as defined in section 3 of the first
mentioned Act).
Note.--By Government of India (F, and B,) Notification No. 140-I, dated the 11th
March, 1931, the above notification has been superadded in its apheation to the territories of
Jammu and Kashmir.
3. District Judge.—By virtue of Punjab government Notification No. 202270-Judi.,
dated the 3rd of May, 1932 and No. 23774-Judi., dated the 14th June, 1932, the Senior
Subordinate Judge has been appointed, by virtue of his office, Additional Judge of
Simla in order that the District Judge, Ambala, may assign to him under section 21 (2) of Punjab
Courts Act 1918 the functions of the District Judge in respect of Section 54, Administrator-
General’s Act, VII of 1913.
Government of India Home Department, Notification No. 202137-1, dated the
8th November, 1939
Delegation of powers to Punjab Government.—In exercise of the powers conferred
by sub-section (1) of Section 124 of the Government of India Act, 1935, the Central Government
is pleased, wit the consent of the Provincial Governments specified in column 1 of the
annexed Schedule, to entrust to them the functions of the Central Government under--
(a) Sections 4, 5, 17 to 21, and 30 of the Official Trustees Act, 1913 (II of 1013), and
(b) Sections 3, 4, 27, 32, 42, to 47 and 50 of the Administrator-General’s Act, 1913 (III of
1913), in relation to the Chief Commissioner’ Province or Provinces (if any) specified
in the corresponding entry in column 2 of the said Schedule and in relation to
British subjects in the Indian States or parts of Indian States specified in the
corresponding entry in column 3 of the said Schedule.
THESCHEDULE
Provincial Government | Chief Commissioner’s Indian States
Province
I I I ——
The Provincial Delhi he State and Estates of the Punjab States|
|Government of the Punjab Agency (including the Punjab Hill States|
Agency) Jammu and Kashmir (including
e Gilgit Agency).


--- Page 691 ---
162 High Court Rules and Orders — Vol. IV
—
PART D - PERSONS AUTHORIZED TO CERTIFY DOCUMENTS FOR THE
PURPOSES OF SECTION 79 OF THE INDIAN
Evidence Act
Government of India Notification No. 417-1 published in the Gazette of India,
dated the 6th August, 1932.
Jammu and Kashmir State
1 Registrar, High Court, Jammu and Kashmir.
2 District and Sessions Judge, Srinagar.
3. District and Session’s Judge, Jammu.
4. Wazir Wazarat, Gilgit.
5. Wazir Wazarat, Ladakh.
Notification No. 98-1, dated the 26th October, 1923
Patiala State
The Foreign Secretary and Assistant Foreign Secretary.
The Revenue Commissioner.
All District and Sessions Judges.
All Nazims (District Magistrates).
All Naib Nazims Faujdari (Magistrates, 1st Class).
All Naib Nazims Dewani (Subordinate Judges).
All Naib Nazims Mal (Revenue Assistants).
The Registrar, High Court.
Foreign and Political Notification No. 541-1, Gaz. of India, dated 12th September,
1931.
Chamba State
The Chief Secretary.
The Chief Judicial Officer.
Notification of the Crown Representative No. 246-1.B., dated 3rd November, 1983.
Tehri Garhwal State
1. Chief Secretary, Tehri State.
Foreign and Political Department Notification No. 141-1, dated the 2nd April, 1924.
Malerkotla State
Foreign Secretary and the Assistant Foreign Secretary.
The Member, Revenue Board.
The District and Sessions Judge.
The District Magistrate.
The Collector.


--- Page 692 ---
High Court Rules and Orders — Vol. IV 163

—

All the Magistrates, 1st Class.

All the Sub-Judges.

The Revenue Officer.

Judge of the Chief Court.
Crown Representative, Political Department Notification No. 84-1, B., dated the 24th March,
1939.

Jind State

1. Judges of the High Court.

2. Revenue Minister.

3. Political Minister.

4. Political Secretary.

5. Sessions Judge.

6. All Nazims (District Magistrates).

7. All Magistrates, 1st Class.

8. All sub-Judges.

9. All Tehsildars.

10. Mohtmim, Record Office.

Government of India, Foreign and political Department, Notification No. 270-1, dated the 16th
May, 1933.

Nabha State
1. Sessions Judge, Nabha.
2. Nazim of Amloh.


--- Page 693 ---
164 High Court Rules and Orders — Vol. IV
—
PART E - EXEOUTION OF CONDEMNED PRISONERS

The following notification provides for the execution of prisoners condemned by
British Courts exercising jurisdiction outside British India:--

Government of India Notification No. 1431-1, dated the 27th April, 1893

Whereas a capital sentence is occasionally passed by a British Court exercising in or
with respect to territory beyond the limits of British India jurisdiction which the Governor-General
in Council has in such territory;

And whereas there may be in such territory no secure place for the confinement
of a prisoner under sentence of death or no suitable appliances for his execution in a
decent and humane manner;

In exercise of the powers conferred by Sections 4 and 5 of the Foreign Jurisdiction and
Extradition Act (XXI of 1879) (now Indian Foreign Jurisdiction Orders, 1902 and 1937), and
of all other powers enabling him in this behalf, the Governor-General in Council is pleased to
direct as follows:--

1. When any person is sentenced to death by a British Court in the exercise of such
jurisdiction as is referred to in the first paragraph of the preamble to this notification, and in
the opinion of the Court, such sentence should for nay such reason as is referred to in the
second paragraph of the said preamble be executed in British India, the Court shall issue its
warrant for such execution to the Superintendent or Keeper of a Jail in British India, and shall in
such warrant prescribe, as nearly as may be, the place in British India where such
Superintendent or Keeper is to cause the execution to be carried out.

2. The jail in British India to which the Court may send its warrant under the
provisions of this notification shall be such as the Governor-general in Council or a
Local Government authorized by him in this behalf, may by general or special order direct.

3. Every warrant for the execution of a sentence of death to be issued by a Court
under the Provisions of this notification shall be in the form set forth in the schedule
hereto annexed.

SCHEDULE
FORM OF WARRANT

To the Superintendent or Keeper of the Jail at in British India.

Whereas at a trial held on the day of 19 (name of place) in (name
of territory), before me, A.B. (name of Judge), being the presiding officer of a British
Court exercising (or with respect to) territory beyond the limits of British India jurisdiction which
the Governor-General in Council has in such territory, C.D. (name of prisoner) was duly
convicted of the offence of culpable homicide amounting to murder and sentenced to suffer death
and the said sentence has been confirmed by E.F. (name of authority);

And whereas there is in (name of territory) no secure place for the confinement
of a prisoner under sentence of death (or no suitable appliances for the execution of a person
under sentence of death in a descent and humane manner);

And whereas this Court is of opinion that for the reason aforesaid the said
sentence should be executed in British India;

This is to authorize and require you, the said Superintendent (or Keeper)
being a Superintendent (or Keeper) of a Jail specified in an order under Section 2 of Act No.
V of 1893, passed by the Governor-General of India in Council, to receive the said C.D.
(prisoner’s name) into your custody in the said jail, together with this warrant, and there him
safely to keep until the time hereinafter appointed. And then to carry the said sentence into


--- Page 694 ---
High Court Rules and Orders — Vol. IV 165
—
execution by causing the said C.D. (prisoner’s name) to be hanged by the neck until he be dead,
At (time and place of execution) and to return this warrant to this Court with an endorsement
certifying that the sentence has been executed.

Given under my hand and the seal of the Court this day of
9.
(Seal) (Signature).


--- Page 695 ---
166 High Court Rules and Orders — Vol. IV
————
PART F - RAILWAY LANDS

1. Categories.—These are divided into two categories, viz,:---

(i) lines where arrangement are assimilated to those of the neighboring British districts,

and

(ii) lines where particular Acts have been applied and special Courts have beer created.

2. Railways included in and Laws applicable.—The former are provided for by Crown
Representative’s Notification No. 206-1.B., dated the 15th June, 1939. It may be noted that Kalka-
Simla Railway mentioned in Central Government Notification No. 343-1, dated the 2nd July, 1924
and Kangra Valley Railway mentioned in Central Government Notification No. 546-1, dated the
10th September, 1931 have now been included in Notification No. 206-1.B., stated above.

The latter are provided for by Government of India Notification No. 345-1, dated the
2nd July, 1924, and Punjab States Railway Lands (Application of Laws) Order, 1939, vide
Notification No. 341-1. B., dated the 13th September, 1939.

3. Magistrates having jurisdiction in Railway Lands have been directed to execute under
certain conditions processes issued by Magistrates having jurisdiction in Indian States, vide
Central Government, Foreign and Political Department Notification No. 34-1. B., dated the 14th
January, 1937.

The relevant notifications have been given in the Appendix.


--- Page 696 ---
High Court Rules and Orders — Vol. IV 167
———
APPENDIX

[0] Political Department Notification No. 206-LB., dated the 15th June 1939 as

amended by notifications Nos. 318-1.B., and 342-1, B., dated the 26th August, 1939

and 14th September, 1939, respectively.

NOTIFICATION

Whereas the Crown Representative has full and exclusive power and jurisdiction over
the lands lying within the States specified in the second column of the Schedule hereto annexed,
which are, or many hereafter be, occupied by the Railway specified in the first column of the said
Schedule (including the lands occupied by stations, by out-buildings and for other railway
purposes) and over all persons and things whatsoever within the said lands;

In exercise of the powers conferred by the Indian (Foreign Jurisdiction) Order in
Council, 1937, and of all other powers enabling him in that behalf, and in supersession of the
notification of the Government of India in the late Foreign Department, No. 515-1.B., dated the
17th March, 1913, the Crown Representative is pleased to provide as follows for the
administration of justice within the said lands:--

(1) All laws for the time being in force in the districts of the Punjab specified in the third
column of the said Schedule shall, subject to such modifications, if, any, as may be specified by
the Crown Representative in this behalf, be in force in the lands lying within the States specified
in the corresponding entry in the second column which are occupied by the portions of the
railways specified in the corresponding entry in the first column thereof:

Provided that, except where the context otherwise requires, references in the said laws
to the Central Government shall be constructed as if they were reference to the Crown
Representative, references to the Provincial Government shall be construed as if they were
references to the Governor of the Punjab and references to British India (Except in Section 124-A
of the Indian of the Indian Penal Code), or to a Province or to any part thereof, shall be construed
as if they were references to the said lands:

Provided, further, that the reference in Section 124-A of the Indian Penal Code to the
Government established by law in British India shall be deemed to include a reference to the
Government established by law in, or the Ruler of, the State in which the said lands are situate:

Provided, further, that any Court may construe the provisions of the said laws with such
‘modifications not affecting the substance as may be necessary or proper in order to adapt them to
the matter before the Court.

(2) The Governor of the Punjab and all officers subordinate to him who for the time being
exercise executive authority within the said districts for the purpose of administration of justice
shall exercise the like authority within the said lands:

Provided that the police jurisdiction in the said lands shall be exercised exclusively by
the Railway Police of the Punjab.

(3) All Courts having for the time being jurisdiction within the said districts shall have the
like jurisdiction within the said lands.

SCHEDULE
rv 1 2 3]
(Bombay Baroda and Central India Railway System:
Ahmadabad — Delhi Section Nabha Gurgaon
Patudi


--- Page 697 ---
168 High Court Rules and Orders — Vol. IV
—
Jind Hissar
Patiala
Faridkot Frontier-Muktsar Faridkot Ferozepore
Nabha
(2) North-Western Railway System:
Delhi-Ambala-Kalka Railway Patiala Ambala
Kalsia
Kalka Simla Railway Bhagat
Keonthal Simla
Patiala
Main Line Patiala Ambala
Ambala-Khanna Nabha
Khanna-Ludhiana Patiala Ludhiana
Ludhiana-Amritsar Kapurthala Jullundur
Kangra Valley Railway Mandi Kangra
Raiwind-Bhatinda Branch Faridkot
Nabha Ferozepore
Patiala
Jammu-Kashmir Sections- Kashmir Sialkot
Sialkot-Jammu Bhatinda-Samasatta Bahawalpur Multan
Bikaner Ferozepur
‘Adamwaham-Reti Bahawalpur Multan
McLeodganj-Fazilka Bahawalpur Multan
Note: Jurisdiction over European British subjects in these railway lands vests in the High
Court of Judicature at Lahore. See Notification No. 580-D, dated the 26th January, 1917.
The lands have been included as part of the States whose territory they are, in the
Province of the Punjab for the purposes of the Administrator-General’s Act, 1915, and the Official
Trustees Act, 1913, by Notification Nos. 1449-D, 1450-D, dated 19th March, 1914.
(i) Government of India Notification No. 345-1, dated the 2nd July, 1924
Whereas the Governor-General in Council has full and exclusive power and jurisdiction
of every kind over the land lying within the States specified in the second column of the Schedule
hereto annexed which are, or may hereafter be occupied by the Railways specified in the first
column of the said Schedule (including the lands occupied by stations, by out-buildings and for
other railway purposes), and over all persons and things whatsoever within the said lands.
In exercise of the powers conferred by the Indian (Foreign Jurisdiction) Order in
Council, 1902 and of 4; other powers enabling him in that behalf, the Governor-General in Council
is pleased to provide as follows for the administration of justice within the said lands:
PART I - CRIMINAL JURISDICTION
For the purposes of criminal jurisdiction, except in proceedings, against European
British subjects and persons jointly charged with European British subjects, the following
arrangements shall be made, namely:--
With the lands occupied by the Railways as aforesaid, the officers and the Court
mentioned in the corresponding entries in the third, fourth and fifth columns of the Schedule shall
exercise, respectively: -—-


--- Page 698 ---
High Court Rules and Orders — Vol. IV 169
—
(a) The powers of a District Magistrate including all powers conferrable on a District

Magistrate;

(®) the powers of a Court of Sessions, and
(c) the powers of a High Court.

as described in the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1898, as for the time being in force in

the said lands.

PART II - CIVIL JURISDICTION

For the purposes of civil jurisdiction the following arrangements shall be made,
namely:--

Within the lands occupied by the Railways, as aforesaid, the officers and the Court
mentioned in the corresponding entries in the sixth and seventh columns of the Schedule with the
administration of civil justice:-—

(a) the powers of a District Court, and
(®) the powers of the High Court.
as described in the Punjab Courts Act, 1918, as for the time being in force.


--- Page 699 ---
SCHEDULE
rr re rr 1+ of fe [7]
District Court of Session | High Court District Court | High Court
Magistrate with
powers conferred
under Section 30
of Criminal
Procedure, 1898
Bombay-Baroda | 1. Rajputana- | Nabha- | The Deputy | In the arcas in | The High Court of | In the Areas in | The High
and Central | Malwa Patisla | Commissioner, | which in | Judicature at | which in| Court of
India Railway | Railway Gurgaon. pursuance of this | Lahore. pursuance of this | Judicature at
system _jodhpur notification the notification the | Lahore.
Bikaner 2. Jodhpur- Patiala The Deputy | Deputy Deputy
Railway Bilcaner Commissioner, | cor rvicgioner of Commissioner of
system. Railway. Ferozepur. the district a district exercises
Bhatnda-
! exercises the the powers of a
Bikaner powers of a District Magistrate
Fronter District the District Judge
Magistrate, the of that district.
District Judge of
that district.
Jaipur State | Jhumbunu- | Lobaru | Deputy District and | Ditto District and
Railway Loharu Commissioner, | Session Judge, Sessions Judge,
Section Hissar. Hissar. Hissar
Bikane Railway | 3. Ludhiana- | Patiala | Deputy District and District and
System Rewari Chod. Commissioner, | Sessions Judge, Sessions Judge,
Gurgaon. Hissar Hissar.


--- Page 700 ---
High Court Rules and Orders — Vol. IV 1m
Loharu Deputy
Commissioner,
Hissar.

4 Dhuri Jakhal | Malerkotls, | The Deputy | In the areas in | The high Court of | In the areas in| The high
Railway. Patiala, | Commissioner, | which in | Judicature at | which in| Court of
Ludhiana | Nabha, | Ludhiana. pursuance of this | Lahore. pursuance of this | Judicature, at
Maler-Kotla | Jind. notification the notification the | Lahore.
Frontier, near Deputy Deputy
Lachche- Commissioner of Commissioner of
Baddl. Maler a district exercises a district exercises
Kotla, the powers of a the powers of a
Frontier, District District
Jakhal. Magistrate, - the Magistrate, the

District Judge of District Judge of
that district. that distrit.

5. Rajpura- Patiala The Deputy

Bhatinda, | Nabha Commissioner,
Railway Ambala.
Rajpura-

Dhuri. Dhurr- | Paiala- oe _ Deputy
Bhat ‘ommissioner
ainda Nabha Ludhiana.

6. Southern Patiala | The Deputy
Punjab Commissioner,

Railway Mian Ferozepure.

Lind

Giddarbaha-

Budhlada The Deputy
Patial:

Budhlada- aval Commissioner,


--- Page 701 ---
1m High Court Rules and Orders — Vol. IV
Jind Rohtak.
Frontier near .
Uchana Jind | ind
Frontier near
Uchana-
Karainthi.
Narwana- Patiala The Deputy
Kaithal Commissioner,
Branch. Karnal.
Eastern Indian | 7. Jullundur Karpurthala | The Deputy | The The
Railway System | Doab Commissioner, | Commissioner, Commissioner,
Railway. Jullundur. Jullundur Jullundur
Division. Division.
8. Phagwara- Ditto
Rahon
Railway
9. Jind-Panjpat Jind The Deputy | In the area in In the areas in
Railway Commissioner, | which in which in
Karnal. pursuance of this pursuance of this
notification the notification the
Deputy Deputy
Commissioner of Commissioner of
a district exercises a district exercises
the powers of a the powers of a
District District
Magistrate, the Magistrate, the
District Judge of District Judge of
that district. that district


--- Page 702 ---
High Court Rules and Orders — Vol. IV 173
Note: The schedule has been amended by notification No.45-1,B., dated the 25th January 1937, No.55-LB., dated the 1st march 1939, and No.381-A-
LB, dated the 1st November, 1939, No. 291-LB., dated the 12th December, 1938.


--- Page 703 ---
174 High Court Rules and Orders — Vol. IV
—

(iii) Political Department notification No. 341-LB., published in the Gazette of India,

dated the 16th September, 1939.

No. 341-LB.—In exercise of the powers conferred by the Indian (Foreign Jurisdiction)
order in Council, 1937, and of all other powers enabling him in that behalf, the Crown
Representative is pleased to make the following Order:--

1. This Order may be cited as the Punjab States Railway Lands (Application of Laws)
Order, 1939.

2. In this Order:

“Crown Representative” means His Majesty’s Representative for the exercise of the

functions of the Crown in its relations with Indian States, and includes:--

(i) any person or persons acting under his authority, and

(i) in relation to anything done before the 1st April 1937, the Governor-General in

Council and any person or persons acting under the authority of the Governor-
General in Council.

“Punjab State Railway Lands” means the railway lands specified in the notification of

the Government of India in the late Foreign and Political Department, No. 345-1, dated

the 2nd July, 1924.

“Resident” means the Resident for the Punjab States.

3. The enactments mentioned in the first column of the Schedule to this Order shall apply
to the Punjab State Railway lands subject to the modifications and restrictions specified in the
second column thereof and to the provisions of this Order.

4. References in the Schedule to this Order to an Act of the Central Legislature or of any
Provincial Legislature shall be deemed to be references to that Act as for the time being amended
by the Central Legislature or, as the case may be, by the Provincial Legislature and as adapted or
modified by any Order in Council made by His Majesty under Section 293 of the Government of
India Act, 1935.

5. The enactments applied by this Order shall, except where the context otherwise requires
and except in the modifications and restrictions referred to in paragraph 3, be construed as if
references therein to the authorities, gazette and territories mentioned in the first column of the
Table hereinafter printed were references to the authorities, gazette and territories respectively
mentioned opposite thereto in the second column of the said Table.

TABLE
(i) Central Government, Governor] Crown Representative.
General or Federal Railway]
Authority
(Gi) Provincial Government, Governor] Resident.
or Chief Controlling Revenue
Authority.
(Gil) Government Crown or Crown Representative or Resident as the]
context may require.
High Court of Judicature at Lahore.
(v) Official Gazette Official Gazette of the Crown Representative or the]
Resident as the context may require.
(vi) British India, any Province in| The Punjab States Railway lands.
British India or any part thereof.
6. A direction in the Schedule in this Order that an enactment or portion of an enactment


--- Page 704 ---
High Court Rules and Orders — Vol. IV 175
—
shall stand unmodified shall be regarded as a direction that it is not to be construed in accordance
with the provisions of paragraph 5.

7. Any Court may construe the provisions of any enactment applied by this Order and of
the notifications, orders, by-laws rules or regulations, made or issued thereunder with such
modifications not affecting the substance as may be necessary or proper in order to adapt them to
the matter before the Court.

8. The Punjab Railway Lands (Application of Laws) Order, 1937, is hereby repealed:--

Provided that all proceedings taken under any of the enactments applied by that Order and
pending at the commencement of this Order shall be continued as if this Order had not been
made:-—-

Provided further that all appointments, delegations, notifications, orders, by-laws rules
and regulations made or issued under or in pursuance of, any of the enactments applied by that
Order shall have effect as if made or issued under, or in pursuance of, the corresponding
enactment applied by this Order, or, as the case may be, the corresponding enactment in force in
the Kalka-Simla Railway Lands and the Kangra Valley Railway Lands.


--- Page 705 ---
176 High Court Rules and Orders — Vol. IV
—
APPENDIX A
INDIAN (FOREIGN JURISDICTION) ORDER IN COUNCIL, 1902
AT THE COURT AT BUCKINGHAM PALACE
The 11th day of June, 1902
PRESENT:

The King’s Most Excellent Majesty,

Lord President,

Earl of Kintore,

Lord Balfour of Burleigh,

Sir John Winfield Bouser.

Whereas by treaty, grant, usage, sufferance, and other lawful means, His Majesty the
King has powers and Jurisdiction, exercised on His behalf by the Governor-General of India in
Council, in India and in certain territories adjacent thereto:

Now, therefore, His Majesty, by virtue and in exercise of powers by the Foreign
Jurisdiction Act, 1890, or otherwise in His Majesty vested, is pleased, by and with the advice of
His Privy Council, to order, and it is hereby ordered as follows:--

1. This Order may be cited as the India (Foreign Jurisdiction) Order in Council, 1902.

2. The Limits of this Order are the territories of India outside British India, and any other
territories which may be declared by His Majesty in Council to be territories, in which
jurisdiction is exercised by or on behalf of His Majesty through the Governor-General
of India to Council, or some authority subordinate to him, including the territorial
waters of any such territories.

3. The Governor-General of India in Council may, on His Majesty’s behalf, exercise any
power or jurisdiction which His Majesty or the Governor-General of India in Council
for the time being has within the limits of this Order, and may delegate any such power
or jurisdiction to any servant of the British Indian Government in such manner, and to
such extent, as the Governor-General in Council from time to time thinks fit.

4. The Governor-General in Council may make such rules and order as may seem
expedient for carrying the Order into effect, and in particular:--

(a) for determining the law and procedure to be observed, whether by applying with
or without modification all or any of the provisions of any enactment in force
elsewhere, or otherwise;

(b) for determining the persons who are to exercise jurisdiction, cither generally or
in particular classes of cases, and the powers to be exercised by them’

(¢c) for determining the Courts, Authorities, Judges, and Magistrates, by whom, and
for regulating the manner in which, any jurisdiction, auxiliary or incidental to or
consequential on the jurisdiction exercised under this Order, is to be exercised in
British India;

(d) for regulating the amount, collection and application of fees.

5. All appointments, delegations, certificates, requisitions, rules’ notifications, processes,
orders and directions made or issued under or in pursuance of any enactment of the
Indian Legislature regulating the exercise of foreign jurisdiction, are hereby confirmed,
and shall have effect as if made or issued under this order.

6. The Interpretation Act, 1889, shall apply to the construction of this Order.

(Government of India Notification No. 3917-1, A., dated 12th September, 1902, published in

Gazette of India, 1902, Part I, pages 667-68).


--- Page 706 ---
High Court Rules and Orders — Vol. IV 177
—
APPENDIX B
THE INDIAN (FOREIGN JURISDICTION) ORDER, 1937
AT THE COURT OF BUCKINGHAM PALACE
The 18th day of March, 1937
PRESENT:

The King’s Most Excellent Majesty in Council.

Whereas by the proviso to sub-section (1) of section two of the Government of India
Act, 1935, it is provided that any powers connected with the exercise of the functions of the
Crown in its relations with Indian States shall, in India, if not exercised by His Majesty, be
exercised only by, or by persons acting under the authority of, His Majesty’s Representative for
the exercise of those functions of the Crown:

And whereas provision is made by the said Act and the Government of Burma Act,
1935, as to the authorities which are respectively to exercise on behalf of His Majesty the rights,
authority and jurisdiction of His Majesty in, and relation to, the tribal arca in India, and in and in
relation to, areas in Burma which are not part of the territories of His Majesty:

And whereas it is accordingly expedient to amend the India (Foreign Jurisdiction)
Order in Council, 1902 (in this Order referred to as “The principal Order”);

Now, therefore, His Majesty, by virtue and in exercise of the powers by the Foreign
Jurisdiction Act, 1890, or otherwise in His Majesty vested, is pleased by and with the advice of
His Privy Council to order, and it is hereby ordered as follows: -—-

(1) This Order may be cited as the Indian (Foreign Jurisdiction) Order in Council, 1937.

2 (i) As from the commencement of Part III of the Government of India Act, 1935,
the powers conferred by the principal Order on the Governor-General in Council shall,
so far as they are connected with the exercise of the functions of the Crown in its
relations with Indian States, be powers of His Majesty’s Representative for the
exercisc'of those functions of the Crown, and he may delegate those powers to such
extent and in such manner as he thinks fit.

(ii) The person appointed to the His Majesty’s Representative for the exercise of

those functions of the Crown may, before the commencement of Part III of the said

Act, make any rules, orders, delegations and appointments and issue any other

instruments which he would have power to make or issue after the commencement of

Part III of the said Act, but no such rule, delegation or appointment shall come into

force until the commencement of Part-II of the said Act.

(iii) Orders and other instruments made and executed in the name of the Crown

Representative shall be authenticated in such manner as may be specified in the Rules

to be made by him and the validity of an Order or Instrument which is so authenticated

shall not be called in question on the ground that it is not an Order or Instrument made
by the Crown Representative.

(3) As from the commencement of Part-III of the said Act and the Government of Burma
Act, 1935, the principal Order shall cease to have effect as respects the tribal areas in
India and any arcas in Burma, without prejudice, however, to the validity of anything
previously done thereunder:

Provided that any rules, orders, delegations, appointments or other instruments
made or issued under the said Order shall continue in force, except so far as revoked or
varied by the authority competent for the purpose under the Government of India Act,
1935, or the Government of Burma Act, 1935, as the case may be.


--- Page 707 ---
178 High Court Rules and Orders — Vol. IV
————
(4) Save as aforesaid, the powers conferred by the principal Order on the Governor-
General in Council shall continue to be exercisable on behalf of His Majesty by the
Governor-General in Council until the establishment of the Federation of India and
shall thereupon become exercisable on behalf of the His Majesty by the Governor-
General of India.
5. The Interpretation Act, 1889, shall apply to the construction of this Order.
PART B — JUSTICES OF THE PEACE FOR THE PUNJAB;
CRIMINAL LAW AND PROCEDURE APPLIABLE
SCHEDULE
(a) Crow Representative’s Notification No. 323-1, B., dated the 9th December, 1937
Appointment of justices.—In exercise of the powers conferred by the Indian (Foreign
Jurisdiction) Order in Council, 1937, and of all other powers enabling him in that behalf, the
Crown Representative is pleased, in supersession of the Notification of the Government of India in
the late Foreign and Political Department No. 647-167-1, dated the 24th April, 1923, to appoint
the officers for the time being holding the officers specified in the first column of the Schedule
hereto annexed, being European subjects, to the Justices of the Peace within the territories of the
State and Estates entered in the second column of the Schedule opposite their respective names
and to direct that the High Court of Judicature at Lahore shall be the Court to which such officers
shall commit European British subjects for trial.
SCHEDULE
[The Hon'ble the Resident for the Punjab]
Bahawalpur, Khairpur
[Secretary to the Hon’ble the Resident
lfor the Punjab States
Baghal, Baghat, Balsan, Bashahr, Bhaji, Bilaspur)
Bija, Darkoti, Delath Estate, Dhadi Estate, Dhami,
The Political Agent, Punjab Hill Ghund Estate, Jubbal, Kalsia, Keonthal, Khaneti
States Agency Estate, Koti Estate Kumharsain, Kunihar, Kuthar,
Madan Estate, Mahlog, Mangal, Nalagarh, Ratesh|
Estate, Rawingarh Estate, Sangd, Sirmun Tehri
(Garhwal), Tharoch, and, Theog Estate.
(d) Justices of the Peace to commit for trial to the High Court having jurisdiction
Government of India Notification No. 582-D, dated the 26th January, 1917 as amended
by Notification No. 881-LB., dated 14th May, 1917.—In exercise of the powers conferred by the
Indian (Foreign Jurisdiction) Order in Council, 1902, and of all other powers enabling him in that
behalf, and in supersession of the notification of the Government of India in the Foreign
Department, No. 2616-1, (dated the 6th August, 1890, the Governor-General in Council is pleased
to direct that a Justice of the Peace for the time being in any Native State, Territory or Chiefship
specified in the notifications of the Government of India in the Foreign and Political Department,
Nos. 580-D., and 581-D., dated the 26th January 1917, shall commit for trial to the High Court
which under those notifications has original and appellate criminal jurisdiction in pursuance of
Section 109, sub-section (1) of the Government of India Act, 1915 (5 & 6 Geo-V., Ch. 61), over
European British subjects (for the time being within) such State, Territory or Chiefship.
(c) Justices of the Peace invested with powers of Magistrates of the Ist class and to hold inquests
Government of India Notification No. 319-D, dated the 16th January, 1917, as
amended by Notification No. 881-1, B., dated 24th May, 1917 — In exercise of the powers
conferred by the Indian (Foreign Jurisdiction) Order in Council, 1902, and or all other powers
enabling him in that behalf, and in supersession of the notification of the Government of India in
the Foreign Department, No. 680-1, B., dated the 19th March, 1912, the Governor-General in
Council is pleased to direct:--


--- Page 708 ---
High Court Rules and Orders — Vol. IV 179
—
(1) that any European British subject appointed either by name or by virtue of his office to
be a Justice of Peace in or for any country or place beyond the limits of British India
shall have, in regard to European British subjects and persons accused of having
committed offences jointly with European British subjects, all the powers of a
Magistrate of the Ist Class under the Code ‘of Criminal Procedure, 1898 (V of 1898),
and in addition all powers under Sections 186 and 190 of the said Code;
(2) that any European British subject appointed either by name or by virtue of his office to
be a Justice of the Peace in or for any country or place-beyond the limits of British
India shall have power to hold inquest under Section 147 of the said Code.
(d) Criminal law and procedure of British India applicable to British subjects in the territories
outside British India in which jurisdiction is exercised by the Governor-General in Council
Government of India No. 1863-1-A., dated the 13th May, 1094, as amended by No. 184-
JK dated the 20th March, 1930.—In exercise of the powers conferred by the Indian (Foreign
Jurisdiction) Order in Council, 1902, the Governor-General in Council is pleased, with effect from
the Ist day of June, 1904 to direct that, for the purposes. of any power of jurisdiction exercised
under that Order, the law relating to offences and to criminal procedure for the time being in force
except Sections 443 to 447 to the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1898 (Act V of 1898) in British
India shall, subject to the procedure to such modifications as the Governor-General in Council
from time to time directs, apply, so far as applicable, to all subjects of His Majesty.
(e) Jurisdiction of High Court over European British subjects in Indian States
Government of India Notification No. 580-D., dated the 26th January 1917.—In
exercise of the powers conferred by Section 109, sub-section (1) of the Government of India Act,
1915 (5 & 6 Geo. V, Ch. 61), and in supersession of the notification of the Government of Indiain
the Foreign Department, No. 853-LB., dated the 16th April, 1913, as amended by the notification
of the Government of India in the Foreign and Political Department, No. 1589-L.B., dated the 2nd
August 1916, the Governor-General in Council is pleased to direct that original and appellate
criminal jurisdiction over European British subject of His Majesty (for the time being within) the
territories of the States of India named below shall, until the Governor-General in Council
otherwise orders, be exercised by the High Courts of Judicature established at Fort William in
Bengal, Madras, Bombay, Allahabad and Patna and Lahore respectively, as follows:---
kk
(By the High Court of Judicature at Lahore In—
Jammu and Kashmir
Kalat.
Las Bela.
The territories administered by the Agent to the Governor-General in Baluchistan as
such Agent.
The States in the political control of the Government of the Punjab.
The States within the political charge of the Agent to the Governor-General, Punjab
States (now the Hon'ble the Resident for the Punjab States).
The territories administered by the Agent to the Governor-General, North-West
Frontier Province, as such Agent.)
As amended by Notifications:
No. 880-LB., dated 24th May, 1917.
No. 90-B.S., dated the 1st April, 1919.
No. 247-X, dated 23rd April, 1930.


--- Page 709 ---
180 High Court Rules and Orders — Vol. IV
—

No. 149-1, dated 1st April, 1933.

No. 157, dated Ist April, 1933.

No. 172-1.B., dated 18th March, 1937.

PART C — POWERS UNDER ADMINISTRATOR-GENERAL’S ACT

Central Government, Home Department, Notification No. 202/37-11, dated the 8th
November, 1939.

1. High Court.—In pursuance of sub-clause (j) of the clause (2) of Section 2 of the
Official Trustees Act, 1913 (II of 1913) and sub-clause (j) of clause (12) of Section 2 of the
Administrator-General’s Act, 1913 (III of 1913), and in supersession of the notification of the
Government of India, in the Home Department Nos. 1823-C and 1824-C., dated the 18th March,
1914, and in the Foreign and Political Department, Nos. 1449-D, and 1450-D., dated the 19th
March, 1914, the Central Government is pleased to appoint, in relation to British subjects in the
Indian States or parts of Indian States specified in column 1 of the annexed Schedule, the Court
specified in the corresponding entry in column 2 thereof to be the High Court for the purpose of
said Acts:

Provided that all proceedings pending in any Court at the date of this notification shall
be carried on as if this notification had not been issued.

SCHEDULE
5) The States and Estates of the Punjab
States Agency (including the Punjab Hill The High Court at Lahore
States Agency) Azad Jammu and
Kashmir (including the Gilgit Agency)

2. District Judge.—The following notification of the Government of India provides for
the discharge of the duties imposed on a District Judge by Section 64 of the Administrator-
General's Act (II of 1874):--

Government of India Notification No. 3542-1, dated the 27th August, 1891.—In
exercise of the powers conferred by Sections 4 and 5 of the Foreign Jurisdiction and Extradition
Act (XXI of 1879) (now Indian Foreign Jurisdiction Orders 1902 and 1937) and of all other
powers enabling him in this behalf, the Governor-General in Council is pleased to declare that the
powers and duties which are conferred and imposed on a District Judge by Section 64 of the
Administrator-General’s Act (II of 1874), as amended by Section 13 of Act II of 1890.(now Act
III of 1913), shall in the dominions of Princes and States in India in alliance with Her Majesty, be
respectively conferred upon and discharged by the following officers:--

(@) In any dominion in or for which a District Court has been established or continued by
the Governor-General in Council, the Judge of that Court; provided that when more
than one officer exercises the powers of a District Judge in any such dominion, it shall
be competent for the officer who exercises in that dominion the powers of a high Court
to determine the whom the aforesaid powers and duties shall be exercised in any
particular case or within any specified area in that dominion; and

(b) In all other cases, the Political Agent (as defined in Section 3 of the first mentioned
Act).

Note: By Government of India (F. and B.) Notification No. 140-1, dated the 11th
March, 1931, the above notification has been superseded in its application to the territories of
Jammu and Kashmir.

3. District Judge.—By virtue of Punjab Government Notification No. 20227-Judl., dated
the 3rd of May, 1932 and No. 23774-Judl., dated the 14th June, 1932, the Senior Subordinate


--- Page 710 ---
High Court Rules and Orders — Vol. IV 181
———
Judge has been appointed, by virtue of his office, Additional Judge of Simla in order that the
District Judge, Ambala, may assign to him under Section 21(2) of Punjab Courts Act 1918 the
functions of the District Judge in respect of Section 54, Administrator-General’s Act, VII of 1913.

Government of India Home Department, Notification No. 202/37-1, dated the 8th
November, 1939.

Delegation of powers to Punjab Government.—In exercise of the powers conferred
by sub-section (I) of Section 124 of the Government of India Act, 1935, the Central Government
is pleased, with the consent of the Provincial Governments specified in column 1 of the annexed
Schedule, to entrust to them the functions of the central Government under :---

(a) Sections 4, 5, 17 to 21 and 30 of the Official Trustees Act, 1913 (II of 1913), and
(b) Sections 3, 4, 27, 32, 42 to 47 and 50 of the Administrator-General’s Act, 1913 (III of
1913), In relation to the Chief Commissioner’s Province or Provinces (if any) specified
in the corresponding entry in column 2 of the said Schedule and in relation to subjects
in the Provinces of Pakistan or parts of Provinces of Pakistan specified in the
corresponding entry in column 3 of the said Schedule.
THESCHEDULE
Provincial Government Chief Commissioner’s Parts of Province
Province
The Provincial | Lahore The Estates of the Punjab Agency
Government of Punjab (including the Punjab Hill Jammu &
Kashmir (including the Gilgit
Agency)
PART D — PERSONS AUTHORIZED TO CERTIFY DOCUMENTS FOR THE
PURPOSES OF SECTION 79 OF THE EVIDENCE ACT
Government of India Notification No. 417-1, published in the Gazette of India, dated the 6"
August, 1932.
Azad Jammu and Kashmir State

1. Registrar, High Court, Azad Jammu and Kashmir.

2. District and Sessions Judge, Srinagar.

3. District and Sessions Judge, Jammu.

4. Wazir Wazarat, Gilgit.

5. Wazir Wazarat, Ladakh.

Notification No. 98-1, dated the 26th October, 1923
Patiala State

1. The Foreign Secretary and Assistant Foreign Secretary.

2. The Revenue Commissioner.

3. All District and Sessions Judges.

4. All Nazims (District Magistrates).

5. All Naib Nazims Faujdari (Magistrates, 1st Class).

6. All Naib Nazims Dewani (Subordinate Judges).


--- Page 711 ---
182 High Court Rules and Orders — Vol. IV
—

7. All Naib Nazims Mal (Revenue Assistants).

8. The Registrar, High Court.

Foreign and Political Notification No. 541-1, Gaz. Of India, dated 12th September, 1931.
Chamba State
The Chief Secretary.
The Chief Judicial Officer.
Notification of the Crown Representative No. 246-1. B., dated 3rd November, 1938.
Tehri Garhwal State
Foreign and Political Department Notification No. 141-1, dated the 2nd April, 1924.
Malerkotla State

1. Foreign Secretary and the Assistant Foreign Secretary.

2. The Member, Revenue Board.

3. The District and Sessions Judge.

4. The District Magistrate.

5. The Collector.

6. All the Magistrates, 1st Class.

7. All the Sub-Judges.

8. The Revenue Officer.

9. Judge of the Chief Court.

Crown Representative, Political Department Notification No. 84-1. B., dated the 24th March,
1939.

Jind State

1. Judges of the High Court.

2. Revenue Minister.

3. Political Minister.

4. Political Secretary.

5. Sessions Judge.

6. All Nazims (District Magistrates).

7. All Magistrates, 1st Class.

8. All Sub-Judges.

9. All Tehsildars.

10. Mohtmim, Record Office.

Government of India, Foreign and Political Department, Notification No. 270-1, dated the
16th May, 1933.

Nabha State
1. Sessions Judge, Nabha.


--- Page 712 ---
High Court Rules and Orders — Vol. IV 183
—
2. Nazim of Amloh.
PART E - EXECUTION OF CONDEMNED PRISONERS

The following notification provides for the execution of prisoners condemned by
Courts exercising jurisdiction outside Pakistan:

Government of India Notification No. 1431-1, dated the 27th April 1893.

Whereas a capital sentence is occasionally passed by a British Court exercising in or
with respect to territory beyond the limits of British India jurisdiction which the Governor-General
in Council has in such territory;

And whereas there may be in such territory no secure place for the confinement of a
prisoner under sentence of death or no suitable appliances for his execution in a decent and
humane manner;

In exercise of the powers conferred by Sections 4 and 5 of the Foreign Jurisdiction and
Extradition Act (XXI of 1879) (Now Indian Foreign Jurisdiction Orders, 1902 and 1937), and of
all other powers enabling him in this behalf, the Governor-General in Council is pleased to direct
as follows:

1. When any person is sentenced to death by a British Court in the exercise of such
jurisdiction as it referred to in the first paragraph of the preamble to this notification,
and in the opinion of the Court, such sentence should for any such reason as is referred
to in the second paragraph of the said preamble be executed in Sub-continent the Court
shall issue its warrant for such execution to the Superintendent or Keeper of a Jail in
Sub-continent and shall in such warrant prescribe, as nearly as may be, the place in
Sub-continent where such Superintendent or Keeper is to cause the execution to be
carried out.

2. The jail in Sub-continent to which the Court may send it warrant under the provisions
of this notification shall be such as the Governor-General in Council, or a Local
Government authorized by him in this behalf, may be general or special order direct.

3. Every warrant for the execution of a sentence of death to be issued by a Court under the
provisions of this notification shall be in the form set forth in the schedule hereto
annexed.


--- Page 713 ---
184 High Court Rules and Orders — Vol. IV
————
SCHEDULE
FORM OF WARRANT

To the Superintendent of Keeper of the Jail at in .

Whereas at a trial held on the day of 19. (name of place)
in (name of territory), before me, AB. (name of Judge), being the presiding officer of
a exercising (or with respect to) territory beyond the limits of jurisdiction
which the Governor-General in Council has in such territory, C.D. (name of prisoner) was duly
convicted of the offence of culpable homicide amounting to murder and sentenced to suffer death
and the said sentence has been confirmed by E.F. (name of authority);

And whereas there is in (name of territory) no secure place for the confinement of a
prisoner under sentence of death (or no suitable appliances for the execution of a person under
sentence of death in a decent and humane manner);

And whereas this Court is of opinion that for the reason aforesaid the said sentence
should be executed in British India.

This is to authorize and require you, the said Superintendent (or Keeper) being a
Superintendent (or Keeper) of a Jail specified in an order under Section 2 of Act No. V of 1893,
passed by the Governor-General of India in Council, to receive the said C.D. (prisoner's name)
into your custody in the said jail, together with his warrant, and there him safely to keep until the
time hereinafter appointed, and then to carry the said sentence into execution by causing the said
C.D. (prisoner’s name) to be hanged by the neck until he be dead, at (time and place of execution)
and to return this warrant to this Court with an endorsement certifying that the sentence has been
executed.

Give under my hand and the seal of the Court this, day of 19

(Seal). (Signature)

PART F — RAILWAY LANDS

1. Categories.--These are divided into two categories, viz.

(i) lines where arrangements are assimilated to those of the neighbouring British districts,

and

(ii) lines where particular Acts have been applied and special Courts have been created.

2. Railways included in and Laws applicable.—The former are provided for by Crown
Representative’s Notification No. 206-1.B., dated the 15th June, 1939. It may be noted that Kalka-
Simla Railway mentioned in Central Government Notification No. 343-1, dated the 2nd July, 1924
and Kangra Valley Railway mentioned in Central Government Notification No. 546-1, dated the
10th September, 1931 have now been included in Notification No. 206-1.B., stated above.

The latter are provided for by Government of India Notification No. 345-1, dated the
2nd July, 1924, and Punjab States Railways Lands (Application of Laws) Order, 1939, — vide
Notification No. 341-LB., dated the 13th September, 1939.

3. Execution of Processes.—Magistrates having jurisdiction in Railway Lands have been
directed to execute under certain conditions processes issued by Magistrate having jurisdiction in
Indian States, vide Central Government, Foreign and Political Department Notification No. 34-1.
B., dated the 14th January, 1937.

The relevant notifications have been given in the Appendix.

APPENDIX

(i) Political Department No. 206-1. B., dated the 15th June, 1939 as amended by

notifications Nos. 318-1. B., and 342-1. B., dated the 26th August 1939 and 14th


--- Page 714 ---
High Court Rules and Orders — Vol. IV 185
————
September, 1939, respectively.
NOTIFICATION

Whereas the State Representative has full and exclusive power and jurisdiction aver the
lands lying within the States specified in the second column of the Schedule hereto annexed,
which are, or may hereafter be, occupied by the Railways specified in the first column of the said
Schedule (including the lands occupied by stations, by out-buildings and for other railway
purposes) and over all persons and things whatsoever within the said lands:

In exercise of the powers conferred by the Indian (Foreign Jurisdiction) Order in
Council, 1937, and of all other powers enabling him in that behalf, and in supersession of the
notification of the Government of India in the late Foreign Department, No. 515-1. B., dated the
17th March, 1913, the Crown Representative is pleased to provide as follows for the
Administration of Justice within the said lands.

(1) All laws for the time being in force in the districts of the Punjab specified in the third
column of the said Schedule shall, subject to such exceptions by the State Representative in this
behalf, be in force in the land lying within the States specified in the corresponding entry in the
second column which are occupied by the portions of the railways specified in the corresponding
entry in the first column thereof:

Provided that, except where the context otherwise requires, references in the said laws
to the Central Government shall be construed us if they were reference to the State Representative,
references to the Provincial Government shall be construed as if they were references to the
Governor of the Punjab and references to Sub-continent (except in Section 124-A of the Penal
Code), or to a Province or to any part thereof, shall be construed as if they were references to the
said lands:

Provided, further, that the reference in Section 124-A of the Penal Code to the
Government established by law in Sub-continent shall be deemed to include a reference to the
Government established by law in, or the Ruler of, the State in which the said lands are situate:

Provided, further, that any Court may construe the provisions of the said laws with such
‘modifications not affecting the substance as may be necessary or proper in order to adapt them to
the manner before the Court.

(2) The Governor of the Punjab and all officers subordinate to him who for the time being
exercise executive authority within the said districts shall exercise the like authority within the
said lands:

Provided that the police jurisdiction in the said lands shall be exercised exclusively by
the Railway Police of the Punjab.

(3) All Courts having for the time being jurisdiction within the said districts shall have the
like jurisdiction within the said lands.

SCHEDULE

S.No. Railway State District

(1) Bombay Baroda and Central India Railway system:

Ahmadabad-Delhi Nabha Gurgaon

Section Pataudi

![“Rewari-Bhatinda- Dujana Hisar
*[Notification No.247-1-B., dated 25.5.1944).


--- Page 715 ---
186 High Court Rules and Orders — Vol. IV
—
Fazilka Jind
Patiala (up to the outer signal of Railway
Station Bhatinda towards Sher Garh)
Patiala (from outer signal of Ferozepur.
Railway Station Bhatinda towards Sher
Garh up to Patiala-Faridkot frontier)]
Faridkot Frontier-Faridkot Ferozepure
Muktsar Nabha
(2) Nort-Western Railway Station:
Delhi-Ambala-Kalka Patiala Ambala
Railway Kalsia
Kalka-Simla Raliway ~~ Bhagat Simla
Keonthal
Patiala

Main Line

Ambala-Khanna Patiala Ambala
Nabha

Khanna-Ludhiana Patiala Ludhiana

Ludhiana-Amritsar Kapurthala ~~ Jullundur

Kangra Valley Railway ~~ Mandi Kangra

Raewind-Bhatinda Faridkot Ferozepore.

Branch Nabha

Patiala

Jammu-Kashmir Section

Sialkot-Jammu Kashmir Sialkot

Bhatinda-Samasatta Bahawalpur Multan

Bikaner Ferozepore
Adamwahan-Reti Bahawalpur Multan
McLeodganj-Fazilka Bahawalpur Multan
Note: Jurisdiction over European British subjects in these railway lands vests in the High

Court of Judicature at Lahore. See Notification No. 580-D, dated the 26th January,

1917. These lands have been included as part of the State whose territory they are, in

the
Province of the Punjab for the purposes of the Administrator-General’s Act, 1915, and the Official
Trustees Act, 1913, by notification Nos. 1449-D, and 1450-D, dated the 19th March, 1914.

“(ii) Government of India, Political Department Notification No. 345-1. B., dated the
2nd July, 1924.”

Whereas the State Representative has full and exclusive powers and jurisdiction over
the lands lying within the States specified in the second column of the Schedule hereto annexed,
which are, or may hereafter be, occupied by the railway specified in the first column of the said
Schedule (including the lands occupied by stations, by out-buildings and for other railway
purposes), and over all persons and things whatsoever within the said lands;

In exercise of the powers conferred by the Indian (Foreign Jurisdiction) Order in
Council, 1937, and of all other powers enabling him in that behalf, the State Representative is
pleased to provide as follows for the administration of justice within the said lands:--

PART I — CRIMINAL JURISDICTION

For the purpose of criminal jurisdiction, except in proceedings against European British
subjects and persons jointly charged with European British subjects, the following arrangements
shall be made, namely:--

Within the lands occupied by the railways, as aforesaid, the officers and the Court


--- Page 716 ---
High Court Rules and Orders — Vol. IV 187
—
mentioned in the corresponding entries in the third, fourth and fifth columns of the schedule shall
exercise respectively:--
(a) the powers of a District Magistrate, including all powers conferrable on a District
Magistrate.
(b) the powers of a Court of Sessions, and
(c) the powers of a High Court.
as described in the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1898, as for the time being in force in the said
lands.
PART II - CIVIL JURISDICTION

For the purposes of civil jurisdiction the following arrangements shall be made,
namely:--

Within the land occupied by the railways, as aforesaid, the officers and the Court
mentioned in the corresponding entries in the sixth and seventh columns of the schedule shall
exercise respectively, for all purposes connected with the administration of civil justice:---

(a) the powers of a District Court, and

(b) the powers of High Court.
as described in the Punjab Courts Act, 1918, as for the time being in force.

IL The notification of the Government of India in the late Foreign and Political
Department No. 345-1, dated the 2nd July, 1924 is hereby cancelled.

Provided that all civil and criminal proceedings pending at the date of his notification
shall be carried on as if this notification had not been issued.

SCHEDULE: As pertaining to present India territory therefore not printed.

(iii) Government of India Political Department Notification No. 442-1. B., dated the
11th November, 1942, as amended by Notification No. 5-1. B., dated the 5th January, 1944.

No. 442-LB.—In exercise of the powers conferred by the Pakistan (Foreign)
Jurisdiction) Order in Council, 1937, and of all other powers enabling him in that behalf, and in
supersession of the Punjab Railway Lands (Application of Laws) Order, 1939, the State
Representative is pleased to make the following Order:--

L This Order may be cited as the Punjab States Railway Lands (Application of Laws)
Order, 1942.

2. In this order:--

“State Representative” means Representative of the Central Government for the exercise of the
functions of the State in its relations with Pakistan provinces and includes: ---

(i) any person or persons acting under his authority, and

(ii) in relation to anything done before the Ist April, 1937 the Governor General in Council

and any person or persons acting under the authority of the Governor or General in

Council;

“Punjab Railway Lands” means the railway lands specified in the notification of the
Political Department No. 390-LB., dated the 20th October, 1943, as amended from time to time.
“Resident” means the Resident for the Punjab.

3. The enactments mentioned in the first column of the Schedule to this Order shall apply
to the Punjab Railway Lands subject to any amendments to which the enactments are for the time


--- Page 717 ---
188 High Court Rules and Orders — Vol. IV
—
being generally subject in the territories to which they extend, the modifications and restrictions
specified in the second column of the Schedule and the provisions of this Order.

4. The enactments applied by this Order shall except where the context otherwise requires
and except in the modifications and restrictions referred to in paragraph 3, be construed as if
references therein to the authorities, gazette and territories mentioned in the first column of the
table hereinunder printed were references to the authorities, gazette and territories respectively
mentioned opposite thereto in the second column of said table:--

TABLE
(i) Central Government, President or | Crown Representative
Federal Railway Authority.
(ii) Provincial Government, Governor or | Resident.
Chief Controlling Revenue
Authority.

(iii) Government. State or State Representative or Resident the

context may require.

(iv) High Court High Court of Judicature at Lahore.

(v) Official Gazette Official Gazette of the State Representative, or,

as the case may be, of the Resident.

(vi) British India or any para thereof The Punjab States Railway Lands.

6. A direction in the Schedule to this Order that an enactment or portion of an enactment
shall stand unmodified shall be regarded as a direction that it is not to be construed in accordance
with the provisions of paragraph 4.

7. Any Court may construe the provisions of any enactment applied by this Order and of
any notifications, orders, by-laws, rules or regulations made or issued thereunder with such
modifications not affecting the substance as may be necessary or proper in order to adapt them to
the matter before the Court.

8. That Punjab Railway Lands (Application of Law) Orders, 1937, is hereby repealed: -—

Provided that all the proceedings taken under any of the enactments applied by that
Order and pending at the commencement at this Order shall be continued as if this Order had not
been made:

Provided further that all appointments, delegations, notifications, orders, by-laws, rules
and regulations made or issued under, or in pursuance of, any of the enactments applied by that
Order shall have effect as if made or issued under, or in pursuance of, the corresponding
enactment applied by this Order, or, as the case may be, the corresponding enactment in force in
the Kalka-Simla Railway Lands and the Kangra Valley Railway Lands.

SCHEDULE
Modifications and restrictions
Acts of the Central legislature
1. The Postal code (act | (1) In clause second of Section 21, the words British India shall
XLV of 1860). stand unmodified.
(2) In Section 55, after the words “shall have been passed” insert
“the Crown Representative or.”
LT (3) Section 75 shall stand unmodified.


--- Page 718 ---
High Court Rules and Orders — Vol. IV 189
—

(4) In Section 121-A, for the words “British India” where they
occur for the second time, substitute “British India” or of the
Punjab States Railway Lands.”

(5) In Section 124-A, for the words “British India”, substitute
“British India” or the Punjab States Railway Lands, or
towards the Ruler of, or the Government established by law
in, the State in which the said lands are situate.”

(6) In Sections 244 and 245 for the words “British India”
substitute “British India or the Punjab States Railway Lands”.

(7) In Section 271 reference to “Central Government” shall stand
unmodified.

2. The Police Act, 1861 | (1) In Section 1 for the second paragraph substitute:
(V of 1861) “the words “Magistrate of the district” shall mean an officer
exercising within the Railway Lands the powers of a District
Magistrate as described in the Code of Criminal Procedure,
1898.”

(2) In Section 34, for the words “road or in any open place or
street or thoroughfare within the limits of any town”
substitute” Railway lands.

(3) In Section 46, omit sub-section (1) and the words “when the
whole or any part of this Act shall have been so extended” in
sub-section (2).

3. The foreigners Act, | (1) Throughout the Act for the words “Central Government”
1864 (III of 1864). substitute “Resident”
(2) In clause (b) of Section 1, the words “British India” shall
stand unmodified.
4. The Public Gambling | Omit the preamble and Section 2.
Act, 1867 (III of
1867).
5. The court-fees Act, | (1) Omit the least sentence of Section 1 and Section 1-A.
1870 (VII of 1870).

(2) In Sections 26, 27, 34 and 35 for the words “Appropriate

Government”, substitute “Resident”.
6. The Cattle-trespass | (1) Omit sub-section (2) of Section 1.
Act, 1871 (I of 1871)

(2) In Section 6 for the words “Provincial Government”,

substitute “Magistrate of the District”.
7. The Indian Evidence | (I) Omit sub-section (2) of Section 1.
Act, 1872 (I of 1872)

(2) In Section 37 the words British India” shall stand
unmodified.

(3) In Section 57, for clause (I) substitute:

“(I) All laws or rules having the force of law now, or
herebefore in force, or hereafter to be in force, in any part of
British India or in any area outside British India under the


--- Page 719 ---
190 High Court Rules and Orders — Vol. IV

—

administration of the Crown Representative.”

(4) In Sections 74 and 79 the expression “British India” shall be
read as referring to “British India” and the area outside
“British India” under the administration of the Crown
Representative.

8. The Indian Contract | Omit the second sentence of Section 1 and the second paragraph
Act, 1872 (IX of 1872) of Section 21.

9. The Oaths Indian Act, | (I) Omit the second sentence of Section 1.

1873 (X of 1873)

(2) In Sections 3 and 4 the words “British India” shall stand
unmodified.

10. The Dramatic | Omit the second sentence of Section 1, Section 2 and the words
Performances Act, | “The Provincial Government, or out side the Presidency towns”
1876 (XIX of 1876). | in Section 3.

11. The Opium Act, 1878 | In Section 1 omit the second and third paragraphs.

(Lof 1878)

12. The India arms Act, | (1) In clause (b) of Section 1 the words “by Order of any

1878 (XI of 1878) Government in “British India” shall stand unmodified; and
after those words, the word “or of the Crown Representative”
shall be inserted.

(3) In Sections 6, 7, 11, 13, 15, 16, clause (c) of Section 17,
Sections 18, 25, 26, 30 and 32 for the words “Central
Government” wherever they occur, substitute “Resident”.

13. The Explosives Act, | (1) Omit Section 2.

1884 (IV of 1884)

(2) The powers of the Crown Representative under Sections 5
and 7 may also be exercised by the Resident with the
previous sanction of the State Representative.

(3) In sub-section (1) of Section 9 for the words “Central
Government “substitute “Resident”.

(4) In clauses (a) and (b) of Section 14, for the words “any
Government in British India” substitute “the Crown
Representative or the Resident”.

rr (5) In Section 18 omit sub-sections (1) to (4).

14. The Indian Telegraph | (1) Omit sub-section (2) and (3) of Section (1)
Act, 1885 (XII of
1885)

(2) In sub-sections (1) of Section 4 omit the words “on ships
within Indian territorial waters and” “or Indian territorial
waters”.

(3) In Section 15, for the words “Central Government” wherever
they occur, substitute “Resident”.


--- Page 720 ---
High Court Rules and Orders — Vol. IV 191
———
I ki
15. The Provincial Small | Omit sub-sections (2) and (3) of Section 1 and Section 2.
Cause courts Act, 1887
(IX of 1887).
16. The Police Act, 1888
(IL of 1888).
17. The Revenue Recovery | (1) Omit sub-section (2) of Section 1
Act, 1890 (I of 1890).
(2) For Section 8, substitute.-
“8. The provisions of this Act shall also apply to the recovery
in the Punjab States Railway Lands of any arrear of land
revenue or sum recoverable as an arrear of land revenue
payable to a Collector or other public officer or to a local
authority in any part of British India, or in any local which is
not part of British India, but which is under the
administration of the Central Government or of the Crown
Representative, and to which this Act has been applied.”
18. The Epidemic Diseases | Omit sub-section (2) of Section 1 and Section 2-A.
Act, 1897 (III of
1897).
19. The General Clauses | (1) Sections 3, 4 and 4-A shall stand unmodified:--

Act, 1897 (X of 1897) Provided that for the interpretation of any enactment in the
Punjab States Railway Lands the definition contained in
these sections shall be applicable only after effect has been
given to any modification restriction or rule of construction
prescribed in respect of the enactment by this Order.

I le
20. The Code of Criminal | (1) In Section 1 Omit the words and figures “and it shall come

Procedure, 1898 (Act into force on the first day of July, 1898” and the words from

V of 1898). “or shall apply” to the end of the Section.

(2) Omit clause (j) of sub-section (1) of Section 4 and Sections
22 and 25.

(3) In sub-section (2) of Section 45 the words “Central
Government”; shall stand unmodified.

(4) In Section 197:

(i) for clause (a) and (b) of sub-section (1) substitute “of the
Resident”;
(ii) in sub-section (2) for the words “the Governor-General
or Governor, as the case may be exercising his individual
judgment” substitute “The Resident” and
(iii) Omit sub-section 3.

I si

(6) A sessions Judge at his discretion:

(a) may take cognizance of an offence without the accused
person being committed to the Court of Session by a
Magistrate, and if so, shall follow the procedure laid down by
this Code for the trial of warrant cases by the Magistrate; and

(b) in other cases may direct that any trial before the Court of
Session shall be without jury or aid of assessors.


--- Page 721 ---
192 High Court Rules and Orders — Vol. IV
Be

(7) In Section 402-A, omit the words “in the case of sentences of
death”; and for the words “Governor-General in his
discretion” substitute “Crown Representative”.

(8) In sub-section (1) of Section 503 after the words “Such
attendances and” insert “if such witness resides in British
India or any area to which this Code has been applied”; and
sub-section (2) shall stand unmodified.

(9) In Section 565 for the words “British India” wherever they
oceur, substitute “British India or the Punjab States Railway
Lands”; and the words “Central Government” shall stand
unmodified.

(10) Nothing in the Code as applied shall be deemed to apply to
proceedings against European British subjects or persons
charged jointly with European British subjects.

21. The Indian Post office | (1) Omit sub-sections (2) and (3) of Section 1.
Act, 1898 (VI of
1898).

(2) In Section 2, in clause (b), except in the proviso, and in
clause (d), the words “Central Government” shall stand
unmodified.

EE LL
22. The Indian Stamp Act, | (1) Omit sub-sections (2) and (3) of Section 1, and clause (12-A)
1899 (II of 1899). of Section 2.

(2) In sub-section (1) of Section 57 for clauses (a) to ()),
substitute” to the Lahore High Court of Judicature at Lahore.

(3) In Section 76-A omit the words and figures “Central
Government subject to the provisions of Section 124(1) of
the Government of India Act, 1935, and”

(@) All references to the collecting Government shall be read as
referring to the Resident.

23. The Indian Extradition | Omit sub-sections (2) and (3) of Section 1 and Chapters IV and
Act, 1903 (XV of | V.
1903).

24. The Indian Coinage | (1) Omit sub-section (2) of Section 1, and Sections 3 and 10
Act, 1906 (III of 1906)

(2) In Sections 16 and 20, for the words “authorized by the
Central Government” substitute “authorized by Crown
Representative or by the Resident.”

25. The Code of Civil | (1) Omit sub-sections (2) and (3) of Section 1.
Procedure, 1908 (Act
V of 1908).

(2) In clause (5) of Section 2 and Sections 10 and 16 the words
“British India” shall be read as referring to British India and
the Punjab States Railway Lands; and in clause (5) of Section
2 and Section 10 the words “Central Government” shall stand
unmodified.

(3) In the proviso, the Section 29 after the word “summones”
insert “are situate in “British India”; and the words “Central
Government” shall stand unmodified.

(@) (4) Section 43 shall stand unmodified except that for the
words “to which the provisions relating to execution do not


--- Page 722 ---
High Court Rules and Orders — Vol. IV 193
———
extend” substitute “or British India or the Punjab States
Railway Lands”; and for the words “in British India”
substitute “in the Punjab States Railway Lands”.

(5) In Section 44 for the words “Provincial Government”
substitute “Crown Representative” and the words “Central
Government” shall stand unmodified.

(6) In Section 45 after the words “any Court” insert “situate in
British India or”; and the words “Central Government” shall
stand unmodified.

(7) In clause (a) of Section 78 the words “Central Government”
shall stand unmodified; and for clause (b) substitute: (b)
Courts situate in British India or in any other part of the
British Empire”.

[meer omm— |

(9) in sub-section (i) of Section 85 for the words “The
Government”, wherever they occur, substitute “the Crown
Representative” omit the explanation.

First Schedule

(10) The rule 25 of order V add the following proviso:--
“Provided that, if the defendant resides in British India, the
summons may be sent for service to a Court (not being a
High Court) having jurisdiction at the place where he resides
and if the Court returns the summons with an endorsement
signed by the Judge or other officer of the Court that the
summons has been served on the defendant in manner
hereinbefore directed, such endorsement shall be deemed to
be evidence to service.”

(11) The provisions of rule 48 of Order XXI shall apply only
those cases in which the salary or allowances are payable in
the Punjab States Railway Lands.

(12) In sub-rules (4) and (5) of rule 49 of Order XXI the words
“British India” shall be read as referring to British India and
the Punjab States Railway Lands.

I Cece
26. The Explosive | (1) Omit sub-section (2) of Section 1.
Substances Act, 1908
(VI of 1908)

(2) In Section 4 for the words “British India” wherever they
occur, substitute “India”.

(3) In Section 7 for the words “Central Government” substitute
“Resident”.

27. The Indian Limitation | (1) Omit sub-sections (2) and (3) of Section 1.
Act, 1908 (IX of 1908)

(2) Section 13 shall stand unmodified except that the words “and
from” substitute “the Punjab States Railway Lands from”.

(3) In the case of Articles 52, 53, 57, 59, 61, 63, 64 and 66 to 80
in the First Schedule the period of limitation shall be six

ears.
[ewes m—
28. The Indian | (1) Omit sub-section (3) of Section 1.
Registration Act, 1908


--- Page 723 ---
194 High Court Rules and Orders — Vol. IV
a
cS I

(2) in sub-section (1) of Section 33 after the words “power-of-
attorney resides” in clause (a) and after the words “does not
reside” in (c) insert “in the Punjab States Railway Lands or”.

29. The Whipping Act, | (1) Omit sub-section (2) of Section I and Section 6.
1908 (IV of 1909).

(2) In clause (b) of Section 5 for the words “Provincial

Government” substitute “Crown Representative”.
30. The Indian Lanacy | (I) Omit sub-section (2) of Section I.
Act, 1912 (IV of 1912)

(2) In clause (1) of Section 3, for the words “by any Government
in British India substitute “by the Crown Representative in
the Punjab States Railway Lands, and includes any asylum in
the Punjab which the Resident may, by general and special
order, appoint in this behalf.”

(3) Sections 14, 15 and 67 shall be subject to the proviso that if a
lunatic is an inhabitant of an Indian State, the Magistrate or
Judge, as the case may be, may make him over to the care of
such State with its consent and, in the case of an order under
Section 67, with the consent of the person on whose
application the inquisition was instituted.

I 1
] (5) In sub-sections (1) and (2) of Section 35 for the words “any
other Province” substitute “any Province in British India”.

(6) The Provinces of Chapter IV shall not be applicable except as
provided in Chapter V.

(7) In Section 85 for the words “other Province”, wherever they
occur, substitute “British India Province”.

rr (8) Omit sub-section (2) of Section 89-A and Section 89-B.

(9) In clause (a) of sub-section (1) of Section 91 omit the words
“other than a proceeding before a High Court which is or
may hereafter be constituted by His Majesty by Letters
Patent”.

(10) In Section 98 the words “Central Government” shall stand
unmodified.

31. The Cinematograph | Omit sub-sections (2) and (3) of Section 1.
Act, 1981 (II of 1918)

32. The Provincial | (1) Omit sub-sections (2) and (3) of Section 1.
insolvency Act, 1920
(V of 1920)

(2) In Section 2 for clause (b) of sub-section (1) (substitute): —
“(b) “District Court’ means the principal Civil Court of
original jurisdiction.”

33. The Police Incitement | Omit sub-sections (2) and (8) of Section 1.
to Disaffection) Act,
1922 (XXI of 1922).

34. The Workman's | Omit sub-sections (2) and (3) of Section 1.
Compensation Act,
1923 (VIII of 1923)


--- Page 724 ---
High Court Rules and Orders — Vol. IV 195
———
35. The Official Secrets | (1) Omit sub-section (2) of Section 1.

Act, 1923 (XIX of
1923)
TT (2) Clause (I-A) of Section 2 shall stand unmodified.
(3) In sub-section (1) of Section 8 and sub-section (2) of Section
10, for the words “an Inspector-General or Commissioner of
Police” substitute “the Resident”.
(4) In Section 13:--
(a) in sub-section (1), for the word “appropriate Government”
substitute “Resident”.
(b) in sub-section (3), for the words “appropriate Governments”,
wherever they occur, substitute “Crown Representative”, and
(c) Omit sub-section (5).
(5) Nothing in the Act as applied shall be deemed to apply to
British subjects.
36. The Indian Soldiers | (1) Omit sub-sections (2) and (3) of Section 1.
(Litigation) Act, 1925
(IV of 1925)
(2) In Section 13 for the words “Central Government” substitute
“Resident”.
(3) In Section 14, omit the words “As respects the Provincial
Public Services, the Provincial Government, and in other
cases.”

37. The Indian Succession | (1) Omit Sections 11 and 57, the words and figures “save as
Act, 1925 (XXXIX of provided by Section 77” in Section 58 sub-section (2) of
1925) Section 264 and Schedule III.

(2) For Section 382 substitute: —

“382. Where a certificate in the form of the English Schedule
to this Act has been granted by a Court having jurisdiction
under the Act in British India, or under the Act as applied in
any area outside British India which is under the
administration of Crown Representative or where a certificate
has been granted to a subject of, or resident within, a foreign
State in the Agency by a Political Agent on the production by
such subject or resident of a certificate granted to him by a
State Court, or where a certificate so granted has been
extended, the certificate shall, If it has been stamped in
accordance with the provisions of the Court Fees Act, 1870,
have the same effect as certificates granted or extended under
this Act.”

38. The Dangerous Drugs | (1) Omit sub-sections (2) and (3) of Section 1.

Act, 1930 (II of 1930)

(2) In Section 2 of clauses (i) to (m) substitute:—

“() to import into Punjab States Railway Lands’ means
subject to the provisions of clause (j) to being into the Punjab
States Railway Lands by land, or air;”

() “To import inter-provincially™ means to bring into the
Punjab States Railway Lands from British India and
includes:---

(i) the bringing of a dangerous drug into the Punjab States
Railway Lands from any Indian State which the Crown
Representative, may by notification in the Official Gazette


--- Page 725 ---
196 High Court Rules and Orders — Vol. IV
a
declare to be Inter-provincial import; and
(ii) bringing to the Punjab States Railway Lands from any
Province in British India in the course of a continuous
journey by sea or through the territory of an Indian States.

(k) “to export from the Punjab States Railway Lands” means
subject to the provisions of clause (1) to take out of the
Punjab States Railway Lands by land or air;

(I) “to export inter-provincially” means to take out of the Punjab
States Railway Lands into any Province of British India and
includes:-—

(i) the taking of a dangerous drug out of the Punjab States
Railway Lands into an Indian State which the Crown
Representative may by notification in the Official Gazette
declare to be inter-provincial export; and

(ii) taking out of the Punjab States Railway Lands into any
Province of British India in the course of a continuous
journey through the territory of an Indian State; and

(m) “to transport” means to take from one place to another in the
Punjab States Railway Lands.

(3) In sub-section (2) of Section 8 after the words “Provincial
Government may” insert “subject to the control of the Crown
Representative”.

(4) In Section 31, for the words “by the appropriate
Government” substitute “by the Resident”; and omit the
second sentence.

(5) In Section 35 the words “In connection with offences against
rules which under this Act fall to be made by the Provincial
Government, the Provincial Government, and in connection
with other offences” shall be omitted.

39. The Indian Sales of | (1) Omit sub-section (2) and (3) of Section 1.
Goods Act, 1930 (III
of 1930)

20. The Indian Press | (1) Omit sub-section (2) of Section I.
(Emergency Powers
Act, 1931 (XXII of
1931)

(2) In Section 2, omit clause, (3) and the words “or Chief
Presidency Magistrates” in clause (4).

(3) In Sections 16 and 17 omit the words, “Presidency
Magistrate” wherever they occur.

(4) In Section 24, omit the words “composed of three Judges, or,
where the High Court consists of less than three Judges, of all
the Judges.”

rr (5) Omit sub-section (3) and (4) of Section 25.

(6) In Section 32, omit the words “in a Presidency town before
the Chief Presidency Magistrate, and elsewhere.”

(7) The expression “securities of the Central Government”
wherever it occurs shall stand unmodified.

41. The Indian Wireless | (1) Throughout the Act, for “Central Government” substitute
Telegraphy Act, 1933 “Resident”.
(XVII of 1933).
LT (2) Omit sub-sections (2) and (3) of Section 1.


--- Page 726 ---
High Court Rules and Orders — Vol. IV 197
—
42. The Indian Aircraft | Omit sub-section (2) of Section 1, and Sections 9, 14, 15 and 16.

Act, 1934 (XXII of
1934
43. The Petroleum Act, | (1) Omit sub-sections (2) and (3) of Section 1.
1934 (XXX of 1934)
(2) In Section 25 omit the words “in the Presidency towns, by a
Presidency Magistrate, and elsewhere”.
44. The Payment of Wages
Act, 1936 (IV of
1936).
45. The Registration of | (1) Omit the words “after previous publication” in Section 3.
Foreigners Act, 1939
(XVI of 1939).
rT (2) Omit the proviso to section 6.
Acts of the Provincial Legislature
46. The Punjab Excise | (1) Omit sub-sections (2) and (3) of Section 1.
Act, 1914 (Punjab Act
10f 1914).
(2) In Section 3 for clauses (10) and (12) substitute: -—
“(10) ‘export’ means to take out of the Punjab States Railway
Lands”; and
(12) ‘import’ means to bring into the Punjab States Railway
Land”.
(iv) Service of processes of Indian States in Railway Lands
FOREIGN AND POLITICAL DEPARTMENT
NOTIFICATION
[New Delhi, the 14th January, 1937]

No. 34-1 B.—In exercise of the powers conferred by the (Foreign Jurisdiction) Order in
Council, 1902, and of all other powers enabling him in that behalf of the Governor-General to
Council is pleased to direct that all criminal processes issued in a manner similar to that prescribed
by the Code of Criminal procedure, 1898, by a magistrate having jurisdiction in any State in India
shall be and police officers having jurisdiction in such railway lands under the same manner as if
such processes had been issued by a Magistrate having jurisdiction in such railway lands:

Provided that any modification of the manner of executing such processes may be made
by rules to be framed by the Governor General in Council in this behalf and notified in this
Gazette of India.

Provided further that nothing hereinbefore contained shall require a Magistrate or
Police Officer having jurisdiction in such railway lands to execute any process so issued against
any person who is not a subject of the State by the Court of which the process has been issued or
be construed as authorizing him to execute any such process against any subject or servant His
Majesty.

(v) Government of India Notification No. 467-L, dated the 29th September, 1924
In exercise of the powers conferred by Section 34 of the Arms Act, 1878 (XI of 1878),


--- Page 727 ---
198 High Court Rules and Orders — Vol. IV
—
as applied to the railway lands specified in the notification of the Government of India in the
Foreign and Political Department, No. 343-1, dated the 2nd July, 1924, the Governor-General of
Council is pleased to apply the Arms Rules, 1924, to the said lands, subject to any amendment to
which the said rules may be subject in’ Sub-continent, and subject also to the modifications
specified in the first proviso to the notification of the Government of in India the Foreign and
Political Department, No. 344-1., dated the 2nd July, 1924, and to such further modifications, not
affecting the substance, as may be necessary or proper to adopt the said rules to the said lands.
PE r—
(vi) Government of India notification No. 53-1, dated the 27th January, 1925

In exercise of the powers conferred by Section 34 of the Arms Act, 1878 (XI of 1878),
as applied to the Railway lands specified in the notification of the Government of India in the
Foreign and Political Department No. 345-1, dated the 2nd July, 1924, the Governor-General in
Council is pleased to apply the Arms Rules, 1924, to the said lands subject to any amendment to
which the said rules may be subject in Pakistan, and subject also to the modification of the
Government of in .... The Foreign and Political Department, No. 346-1, dated the 2nd July, 1924,
and to such further modifications, not affecting the substance, as may be necessary or proper to
adapt the said rules to the said lands.

PR —
(vii)

No. 313-LB., as punished in Gazette of India, part 1-A, 4th December, 1937.—In
exercise of the powers conferred by Section 34 of the Arms Act, 1878 (XI of 1878), as applied by
the Notification of the Political Department No. 312-LB., dated 2nd December, 1937 to the lands
lying within the States specified in the second column of the Schedule annexed to the notification
of the Government in the Foreign Department No. 515-LB., dated the 17th March, 1913, which
are occupied by the railways specified in the first column thereof, the State Representative is
pleased to apply to provisions of the Arms Rules, 1924, to the said lands subject to the following
notification namely:--

To sub-rule (i) of rule 37 of the said Rules the following Exception shall be added,
namely:-—-

“Exception.—A certificate issued by an official of an State to the subjects of that States

for carrying arms within the territory of the State shall have the effect of a licence

granted this sub-rule provided that:-—

i) the official granting the certificate holds an office corresponding to that of a

District magistrate in Pakistan; and

(i) The journeys in respect of which the certificate shall have such effect are

performed wholly within the territory of the State.”

RR —

“Note: (i) Government of Political Department, Notification No. 345-1, dated the 2nd July,

1924, has been cancelled by Notification No. 389-LB., dated the 20th October, 1943.

(ii) Government of Political Department, Notification No. 343-LB., dated the 2nd July,

1924, has been cancelled by Notification No. 390-LB., dated the 20th October, 1943.”

(C.S. No. 10/XXI-A-L, dated the 16th December, 1944).

No. 314-LB., as published in Gazette of India December, 4, 1937, Part I-A. In exercise
of the powers conferred by Section 34 of the Arms Act, 1878), (XI of 1878 as applied by the
Railway Lands (Application of Laws) Order, 1937, to the Railway Lands specified in clause 2
thereof the State Representative is pleased to direct:-—

(1) that in the Pakistan Arms Rules, 1924, as applied to the Railway Lands and the Punjab


--- Page 728 ---
High Court Rules and Orders — Vol. IV 199
A
Railway Lands by the notifications of the Government of India in the late Foreign and

Political Department Nos. 467-1., and 53-1., dated the 29th September, 1924 and 27th

January, 1925 respectively, the following Exception shall be inserted in sub-rule (i) of

rule 37 thereof, namely:---

(2) that the Pakistan Arms Rules, 1924, shall apply to the Railway Lands, subject to any
amendment to which the said rules may be subject in Pakistan and subject to the
following modification, namely:---

To sub-rule (i) of rule 37 thereof the following Exception shall be added, namely:--

“Exception.--A certificate issued by an official of an Indian State to the subjects to that

State for carrying arms within the territory of the State shall have the effect of licence

granted under this sub-rule, provided that:--

(i) The official granting the certificate holds an office corresponding to that of a

District Magistrate in sub-continent and

(ii) The journey to respect of which the certificate shall have such effect are

performed wholly within the territories of the State.

(ix) As regards the application of Petroleum Act and its rules to Railway Lands, the powers
exercised by State Representative under the Act and the application of that Act and its rules the
Carbide of Calcium Phosphate, Acetone Wood Naphtha, Methyl Alcohol, etc., sce State
Representative’s Notification Nos. 138-LB., to 151-LB., dated the 18th May, 1938, at pages 68-69
of the Gazette of India, May 20, 1939, Part I-A. and notification no. 207-LB., dated the 22nd
September 1938 at page 144 of the Gazette of India, September 24, 1938, Part I-A.

No. 177 LB. dated the 10th August, 1938. In exercise of the powers conferred by the
sub-continent (Foreign Jurisdiction) Order in Council, 1937, and of all other powers enabling him
in that behalf, the State Representative is pleased to direct that where by any provision of any
enactment, as applied to any territory in India in which the State Representative has power to
exercise jurisdiction on behalf of the Federal Government a power to issue rules, regulations or
by-laws is conferred on any authority, then, unless it is otherwise expressly provided, and without
prejudice to any express provision in this behalf, that authority may, subject to the restraints and
conditions imposed on the exercise of such powers, and, where such authority is not the State
Representative, subject to the previous sanction of the State Representative, apply to that territory
any rules, regulations or by-laws, as the case may be, made under such provision, as in force in
sub-continent which are for the time being in force in sub-continent subject to any amendments to
which such rules, regulations or by-laws, as the case may be, are for the time being subject in
subcontinent with such modifications as may be necessary or proper in order to adapt the rules,
regulations or by-laws, as the case may be, to the requirements of such territory, any rules,
regulations or by-laws applied shall have effect in that territory as if made in pursuance of such
provisions as applied to that territory.


--- Page 729 ---
200 High Court Rules and Orders — Vol. IV
————
CHAPTER -16
RECORDS
PART A — PREPARATION OF JUDICIAL RECORD
I — General Directions

1. Quality of paper to be used for applications, etc.—All applications and petitions
presented to Civil and Criminal Court shall be written on ‘water-marked plain paper’ (formerly
styled as water-marked petition paper). This paper is sold at all treasuries. All petition-writers
should be required to use it.

The use of petition paper is not necessary for powers of attorney filed by counsel, Fard
Talbanas, and lists of documents. The Courts should, however, insists on foolscap’ paper of good
quality being used for such documents.

COMMENTS

Maintenance of true, correct and proper record of judicial proceedings, held, was
essential for safe administration of justice and also for safeguarding valuable rights of citizens.
Application of judicial mind could only be ensured when diligently prepared correct judicial
record was available. Strict vigilance over administrative staff would ensure availability of true
and complete judicial record. Where such record was not made available, Judicial Officer should
be able to find out deficiency in record placed before him. Administrative staff having been found
guilty of gross negligence in maintaining judicial record properly. High Court directed Court
below to initiate disciplinary action against officials responsible for not maintaining record of case
properly.

2. Paper to be used for English record.—The official foolscap half-sheet, which is very
nearly the same size as the petition paper alluded to in the last paragraph, should be used for ail
English portions of the record.

3. Paper to be used for forms.—All Judicial forms which are in the English language are
supplied on paper of the size of half a sheet of foolscap. Forms which are in the Vernacular should
be printed on paper of the size of the standard petition paper, or of a quarter sheet of standard Jail
paper as may be most convenient.

4. Paper to be used for vernacular records of Court.—The Vernacular portion of the
record should be written on “B’ quality paper as supplied by the Jail Department, folded to quarter
sheet, which will be as nearly as possible of the same size as a half sheet of ordinary foolscap, and
as the standard pattern petitioner paper. There is no objection of paper of lighter texture being used
for forms of processes which may have to be transmitted by post, but the size should always be
that prescribed above. Decretal order forms and other forms used for purposes of records should
always be printed on stout durable paper ‘B’ standard quality paper supplied by the Jail
Department should be used exclusively for all Vernacular Records, Proceedings and Registers.

5. Paper to be used for vernacular autograph records of Courts.—Country-milled
badami paper may be used for the autography records of Judges and Magistrates who do not write
their records in English. This paper is obtainable on indent from the Provincial Stationery Officer,
Lahore, in accordance with the rules in the Punjab Printing and Stationery Manual.

6. General instructions for preparation of record.—Attention should be paid to the
following matters:--

(a) Writing on top and sides.—The practice of writing orders and other matters across the

top and along the sides of page is forbidden;
1. 1988CLC1873.


--- Page 730 ---
High Court Rules and Orders — Vol. IV 201
————
(b) Margin to be left on either sides.—In all Vernacular proceedings a sufficient margin
should be left on each side of the paper,. so that writing may not be obliterated by

fraying at the edges;

(c) how records should be tied and kept between stiff covers.—Records in used in
Courts should be placed between stiff wooden or cardboard protectors of the standard
size so that the strain of the cloth or other covering, or of the string or tape, does not fall
on the papers within. It is not intended that the record of each case should be placed
between stiff covers; all that is necessary is to tie each record with broad tape or nawar
instead of string. But each bundle of records should, until consigned to the Record-
room, be kept between stiff covers to prevent fraying, folding, etc.;

(d) English papers.—All English papers should be placed full size, unfolded and tagged
together within a cover of strong country paper;

(&)  Exhibits.—Exhibits should be folded to as nearly as possible the same size and placed
in envelopes of the size of the record;

® Abstracts to the case, evidence and Judgment.—The abstract of the case, depositions
of witnesses and judgments must in every instance be written on paper of good quality
of uniform foolscap size. On no account should judgments ever be written on scraps of
paper, or on the back of the Vernacular petition or order;

(8 Number of pages.—Every page (not sheet) should be consecutively numbered;

(h)  Handwriting.—It should be remembered that one of the essentials of a good record is
that it can be read without difficulty by others. Cases sometimes come before the High
Court in which the record is so illegible as to cause serious inconvenience.

II — Index of Papers, Consigning and Checking of Record

1. Index.—Each civil and criminal record should have prefixed to it an index of its
contents, and such index should be in the prescribed form.

2. Directions as to preparation of index.—Each paper admitted should be entered in the
index on the day on which it is so admitted by the official in charge. The autograph record of the
presiding officer should be entered, as a single paper, as soon as the case is concluded. The entries
in column 4 must be in sufficient detail to allow of the papers described being readily identified,
e.g. the entry regarding a power-of-attorney should specify by whom the power is granted and
whom it empowers; the entry regarding a deposition sheet should note the name of the deponent
etc, etc.

3. Index number on record. Withdrawal documents to be noted on index.—Each
paper on being entered in the index should be marked with its index number. Where a paper
consists of more than one sheet, each sheet should be thus marked. Whenever documents used in
evidence are withdrawn, whether before or after judgment, a note of such withdrawal should be
made in the column of remarks, and it should be stated whether a copy has been substituted or not.

4. Separate index for each part. Note about destruction and certificates.—At the
conclusion of the case, the official who has had charge of the record should separate the papers
and arrange them into two or three parts (Part A, and Part B, or Part, A, Part A(i)and Part B, as the
case may be) according to rules 3 and 4 of Part F of this chapter. For each Part there shall be a
separate index. The index on Part A will show all the papers which were originally on the record,
while those on Part A(i) and Part B will only show those papers which are transferred to those
parts. When any paper is transferred to Part A(i) or Part B, an entry should be made in the
Remarks column of the index of Part A showing the Part to which the paper has been transferred.
The said official should also enter in red ink the words “Not to be destroyed” in the remarks
column of the index of Part A of the record against any paper which is to be preserved under
paragraph 17 of Para F of this chapter. The certificate at the foot of the index should be signed and
the record should then be made over to the record department.


--- Page 731 ---
202 High Court Rules and Orders — Vol. IV
————

5. Consigning record to records-room.—Records of cases decided by all criminal and
civil Courts excepting those Courts which have separate record-rooms of their own (e.g., the
Courts of District and Sessions Judges and Courts of Small Causes at Lahore) are consigned to the
District Record Room under the control of the Deputy Commissioner.

Record of Small Cause Court:

Note I. The records of a suit decided by a Sub-Judge in exercise of the powers of a
Judge or Registrar which have been specially conferred, or of a Judge or Registrar of a Court of
Small Causes in exercise of the powers of a Sub-Judge, are consigned to the record room of the
Deputy Commissioner.

Insolvency and Guardianship record:

Note 2. Records of cases under the Guardians and Wards Act and the Provincial
Insolvency Act decided by a Sub-Judge specially empowered in this behalf are consigned to the
record room of the Deputy Commissioner.

Records of a civil appeal revision decided in a Sub-Judge specially empowered:

Note 3. Records of Civil appeals and Revisions Decided by a Sub-Judge specially
empowered, are consigned to the record room of the District Judge except in the districts which
are not the headquarters of a District Judge where they are consigned to the record room of the
Deputy Commissioner.

[“5-A. Civil and Criminal Courts while sending records for consignment to the District
Record Room under the control of the Deputy Commissioner shall comply with the following
instructions:---

@) Inthe case of Courts at headquarters of Districts, a challan in duplicate in form given
hereinafter, alongwith the Court registers, duly completed, will accompany the records.
The Court registers will be immediately returned after being signed by the Record
Room Clerk receiving the records. One copy of the challan will be returned later, after
entry of Goshwara number with date against each record and signature in full of the
Record Room Clerk. The other copy of the challan will be returned by the Record
Room staff.

(i) In the case of outlying Courts, the challan will be prepared in triplicate and sent to the
District Record Room alongwith recors sought to be consigned. The Record Room
Clerk will acknowledge receipts of the records by signing and immediately returning
one copy of the challan without waiting to enter the Goshwara number and date, to the
Court concerned. The second copy will be returned latter after entry of the Goshwara
number with date against each record and signature in full of the record Room Clerk.
The third copy will be retained by the Record Room staff."

(iii) The Goshwara numbers given by the Record Office in the challan will be entred in the
Court registers by the Ahlmad. Presiding Officers of Courts should, on the first working
day in the months of February, May, August and November check the Goshwara
numbers given in the Court registers Ahlmads with those entered in the challan in order
to see that entries are correctly made in the Court registers, and sign the Court registers
in token of their check.

(iv) Copies of challans retained by the Record Room staff will be kept for 3 years and
destroyed thereafter.

L (C.S. No. 45/XX, C.32, dated the 21st February, 1947).


--- Page 732 ---
High Court Rules and Orders — Vol. IV 203
————
(Form of challan)

COURT OF IN DISTRICT CHALLAN OF FILES CONSIGNED

TO DISTRICT RECORD ROOM
Date of Serial Case Names of Nature of Date of
dispatch of Number Number parties case decision
records to
District
Record
Room
EE I NN NN A
Name Of Village Basta In Signatures in full of Record Goshwara number with date
which records consigned Room Clerk receiving the file
with date
7 rs Te]

6. Checking of record by the record-keeper.—On receipt of the case in the record
room, the Record-Keeper will examine the index and check the entries in columns 1, 2 and 6 with
the papers and stamps in the record. He will then, if the record is complete, sign the certificate to
that effect at the foot of the index, and enter, the case in its appropriate Register; if any papers or
Court-fee stamps are missing he will at once bring the deficiency to notice.

7. Checking of record on its passing from official to another.—In every office there
should be a responsible Despatcher and Receiver of Judicial records, whose duty should be to
check the papers in each record which passes through his hands, and either certify, in the manner
provided in Part B that the index is correct and the record complete, if this is the case, or
immediately bring to notice any deficiency in papers or Court-fee stamps. This course will be
followed by every succeeding official into whose hands the record passes for any purpose unless
such official has been specially exempted by the head of the office from complying with this rule.
Heads of offices should only permit exemptions in cases in which the purpose for which the
record in required is of so temporary or special a nature as to render compliance with the rule
unnecessary. The last certifying official ordinarily be held responsible in the event of any
deficiency in papers or Court-fee stamps being subsequently discovered.

III - Execution Records

1. Statement of case in which decrees have been satisfied or have become Capable
execution to be statement to record-keeper.—To enable proper destruction of records in
accordance with sub-rule (1) of rule 12 of Chapter 16-E., Rule and Orders, Volume IV, all civil
Courts will, in January, April, July, and October each year, send to the record-keeper a list of their
execution cases in respect of records which are six years old or are about to become 6 years old in
which the decrees have been fully executed or have become incapable of further execution. For the
preparation of these lists, reference should be made to civil register No. 1 (civil suits) and to civil
register No. X (execution of decrees) as prescribed in Part A-IV of Rules and Orders, Volume VI,
Part A. Columns 16 to 18 and 20 of register No. 1 show what happens in execution, while column
22 of register No. X contains the date on which an execution case was struck off the file and the
purport of the final order. It is the duty of each presiding officer to see that the registers of his
Court are properly maintained, and that the quarterly statement prescribed here is correctly
prepared and dispatched to the record-keeper promptly.

PART B —- TRANSMISSION OF JUDICIAL RECORDS
1. Duplicate Challans.—When records are transmitted from one office to an other, a list


--- Page 733 ---
204 High Court Rules and Orders — Vol. IV
————
or the records transmitted should be prepared in duplicate in the vernacular in the prescribed form,
and be sent with them. This list will be in addition to the regular index of papers attached to each
record. The signature of the Despatcher in column 9 will, in the absence of a report to ‘the
contrary, operate as a certificate that the record is complete according to the index.

2. Checking of record.—On receipt of the record the proper official of the receiving
office should check the list referred to in the preceding rule. If the list is correct, he should note the
date of receipt of the record in the appropriate column (of both copies) and sign the entry; if the
list is incorrect, he should make a note to that effect thereon, and forthwith repot the fact to the
head of the office for orders. One copy of the list will be returned to the dispatching office
immediately after examination, with the intimation that the papers received are correct, or, if this
not the case with a note of objection. A similar note of receipts, etc., should be made (in
column 11) by each succeeding official into whose hand the records pass, unless he has been
exempted under rule 7, Part A. When the records are no longer required, the second copy of the
list will be returned with the records to the office from which they were received. Here the list will
again be checked; and, if found to be correct, will be returned, attested as such, to the office to
which the records went to be kept with the record of the proceedings in connection with which the
records were required.

COMMENTS

Maintenance of judicial record—Negligence of administrative staff, effect.
Maintenance of true, correct and proper record of judicial proceedings, held, was essential for safe
administration of justice and also for safeguarding valuable rights of citizens. Application of
judicial mind could only be ensured when diligently prepared correct judicial record was available.
Strict vigilance over administrative staff would ensure availability of true and complete judicial
record. Where such record was not made available, Judicial Officer should be able to find out
deficiency in record placed before him. Administrative staff having been found guilty of gross
negligence in maintaining judicial record property. High Court directed Court below to initiate
disciplinary action against officials responsible for not maintaining record of case properly."

3. Docket to accompany records.—All records transmitted from one office to another
should, except in the case of records transmitted to or from a Tehsil or Honorary Court, be sent
under cover of an English docket in which an indication must be given of the No. and date of the
requisition and the class and No. of the case in the Court for which the records are being
transmitted.

4. Transmission of record to Appellate Courts in parts.—In transmitting the record of
an original Court to an Appellate Court, where there are duplicate records in English and
Urdu, one part should be sent to the Appellate Court at one time and the other part separately
thereafter.

5. Precepts of High Court.—As regards compliance with precepts of the High Court, see
Chapter 20, Volume IV.

6. Quarterly list of record sent from record room but not returned.—On the 2nd day
of the first month of each quarter, toe register of files taken out of the Record Room (Form No. D
on page 27 of Part A-VI. Rules and Orders, Volume VI, Part A), should be checked by the Record
Keeper and a list of the files not returned to the Record Room should be prepared and forwarded
to each Court for verification in the form annexed, which is a revenue standard form No. 71.

LIST OF FILES ISSUED
To the Court of dated.
1. 1988 CLC 1873.


--- Page 734 ---
High Court Rules and Orders — Vol. IV 205
————
Number of | Record- | Name of wo A
file in issue | room No. Parties | 3 £ Eg wf
register of file 8 5 ge S 3
= 0 =3
© ro) = 2 S
= Bs] 23 B=)
S ES 8
2 Ee] = 232
a 3g
£ 2 ce EE
5 & gs 5 E
g 2 2x ZZ
a 8 a 2
AN INN FTN I AN AN
PART C - INSPECTION OF JUDICIAL RECORDS
Rules made by the High Court under Section 107(c) now Section 224) of the Government of India
Act, regulating the procedure in Courts subordinate to the High Court, in cases where any person
is entitled to inspect a record of any such Court, and prescribing the fee payable by such persons
for inspection.
RULES

1. Inspection of decided case.—Records of decided cases shall be open to the inspection
of the public, subject to the general control of the head of the office.

The District Judge for the records of his own Court, the Deputy Commissioner for the
records of all District Courts, and the Judge of a Court of Small Clauses for the records of such
Court, shall be deemed to be the head of the office.

2. Inspection of pending cases.—Records of pending cases shall be open to the
inspection of the parties or their pleaders or agents alone, subject to the general control of the
Judge of the Court in which the case is pending; Inspection by petitioner-writers is absolutely
forbidden; and Legal Practitioners’ Clerks may only inspect records when the Legal Practitioner
concerned is present.

Inspection shall not be allowed on the day fixed for the hearing of the case without the
special permission of the presiding Judge, and then only if/the urgent fee is paid (vide Rule 5
below), [except in Challan cases which may be inspected at ordinary fees even on the date of
hearing].!

3. Time and place for inspection. Inspection by Government Law officers.—The
inspection of records shall be made at such time, in such place, and in the presence of such official
as the head of the office, in the case of records of decided cases, and the presiding Judge, in the
case of records of pending cases, may direct; if the record is not inspected on the date fixed by the
proper officer it shall be restored and a fresh application must be submitted before the record can
again be taken out for inspection.

Provided that records of cases, to which Government is a party, may be inspected by
the Advocate-General or the Assistant Legal Remembrances of the Punjab at the office of the
Deputy Registrar of the High Court at Lahore. The Deputy Registrar will, on the application of the
Advocate-General, call for the records of any case required from the District in which such case is
pending, or is on record, and will cause the records to be returned in due course after inspection.

4. Court-fees on applications for inspection.-- Application for inspection of records
'Added by items (3)(i) of correction Pamphlet No.14 dated 3.6.1947.


--- Page 735 ---
206 High Court Rules and Orders — Vol. IV
————
shall be made in writing, and shall distinctly specify the record which it is desired to inspect, [and
shall, if inspection is required of the records of a decided case, bear one rupee Court-fee Stamp,
being the amount of the fee charged for search).!

4-A. Day to day inspection.—When any person inspecting the records of a case desires to
continue inspection of the same record on the following day, he may give notice of his intention to
the official in whose presence inspection is made; and in such cases no fresh application need be
‘made in writing, provided that the inspection is continued from day to day. This will not affect the
fees payable under Rule 5.

5. Inspection fees. Account and made of payment.—The inspection fee for each hour or
part of an hour is one rupee for ordinary, and two rupees for urgent inspections, i.c., on the date of
hearing but urgent fee is not to be recovered when inspection is carried out after the hearing is
over, even though it be done on the date of hearing. *[Inspection of Challan cases should, however,
be allowed at ordinary fees even before the case is heard on the date of hearing]. The fee shall be
paid by means of an additional Court-fee stamp or stamps affixed to the original application before
the record is handed over to the applicant. If more time than is covered by the above fee is
occupied in the inspection, the balance shall be paid at the close of the inspection by affixing on
additional stamp or stamps to the application.

No fees when a record is sent for under Order 13, Rule 10, C.P.C.

Note I—These rules do not authorize a Court to charge a fee when a record is sent for
and inspected by a Court of first instance on the application of a party. Under the provisions of
Order XIII, Rule 10 of the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908. But every application made under
Order XIII, Rule 10, must (unless the Court otherwise directs) be supported by an affidavit of the
applicant or his pleader, showing that the production of the record is necessary.

No fees when record is inspected by lawyers of Government.

2. Note IL—No fee should be charged for inspection of records in Civil and Criminal
cases by the Advocate-General, public Prosecutor or Advocate of the Custodian of Evacuee
Property as such or by any counsel appearing for Government in such cases.

3. Note III —In pending civil cases, where a serving Pakistani soldier is either a party to
the proceedings or is materially concerned in the outcome of the proceedings no fee shall be
charged under these rules when a record is inspected on behalf of such a soldier by counsel
engaged by District Soldiers’ Boards which have been approved by the High Court].

6. Inspection of separate record.—A separate application shall be made, and a separate
fee paid for each record which it is desired to inspect, unless the records are so closely connected
that, in the opinion of toe head of the office or presiding Judge, they may be regarded as one, in
which case one application and one fee will suffice.

7. Copying disallowed, but notes may be taken.—'[No mark shall be made on any
record or paper inspected, and no servant of any member of the Bar shall be allowed on any
account to take notes for his master except in the presence and under the supervision of his master.
The copying or any document or portion of the record in pen and ink is strictly prohibited; but
pencil copies of a document or portion of the record may be made by counsel or under his
supervision and in his presence, by his clerk or servant. Any person infringing or attempting to
infringe the rule, shall be liable to be deprived of the right to inspect records for such period as the
head of the office or Presiding Officer of the Court concerned may think fit].

8. Fees in Court-fee stamps.—Fees under these rules are realized in Court-fee stamps.
1Submitted by item (2) of Correction Pamphlet No.9, dated 3.4.1946.

“Added by item (3)(ii) of C.P.No.14, dated 3.6.1947.
*(C.S:No.31/XXC-10, dated the 14th February, 1946.


--- Page 736 ---
High Court Rules and Orders — Vol. IV 207
————
All Courts should keep an account of receipts from inspection fee so realized.

9. Free inspection of Court registers.—In order to trace particulars of a suit for
documents; Counsel may, with the previous permission in writing of the Presiding Officer of the
Court concerned and in the presence of Court official, inspect the civil or criminal registers of the
Court on behalf of parties, free of charge.

Note: For inspection of Records by the Police, see Chapter 11-E of Volume III.
PART D - CUSTODY OF JUDICIAL RECORDS

1. The following orders as to the assumption and relinquishment of charge of judicial
records shall apply to holders of the under mentioned posts:-—-

(a) Courts of District and Sessions ~~ (1)  Ahlmads.

Judges, Additional Districtand ~~ (2) Record Keeper
Sessions Judges
(b) Courts of Senior Subordinate (1)  Ahlmads
Judges, Administrative (2) Execution Moharrirs
Subordinate Judges, and others ~~ (3) Guardian Moharrirs
Subordinate Judges. (4) Readers to Administrative
Subordinate Judges.

(¢) Small Cause Courts (1)  Ahlmads.

(2)  Naib-Sheriffs-in-charge of
execution work.
(3) Insolvency Clerks.

2. When any of the officials named in Rule 1, having custody of pending judicial records
is transferred to another office permanently, or proceeds on leave for a period of two months or
more, he shall make over full and complete charge of the records in his custody to the official
relieving him.

3. The relieving official shall, in the presence of the official to be relieved check all the
records leaf by leaf with the indices attached thereto, see that no document is missing, and then
sign a certificate to the effect that he has carefully checked all the records made over to him, and
has received the documents mentioned in the indices attached to them. If any part of any record or
any document is found to be missing the matter shall immediately be brought to the notice of the
Presiding Officer of the Court.

4. Ifany document or part of the record is subsequently found to be missing, the Presiding
Officer of the Court shall immediately take action for its recovery or reconstruction. He shall also
fix responsibility on the custodian if the document was on the index, or on the official whom the
custodian relieved, if it was not on the index.

5. When an official having charge of such records is granted leave for a period of less than
two months or is temporarily transferred to another post, those records only which are required for
cases which are likely to come up for hearing in the ordinary course during his absence shall be
taken over by the relieving official and the procedure laid down in paragraphs 2 and 3 adopted.
The remaining records shall be locked up, the key of the lock being kept by the Presiding Officer
of the Court. If any further records are needed during the absence of the permanent custodian, they
shall be taken out and properly checked under the supervision of the Presiding Officer before
being taken over by the temporary custodian.

6. So far as the record room is concerned, only the files not yet acknowledged by the
Record Keeper need be checked.

7. For the purposes of paragraphs 2 to 6, both the relieved and relieving official will be
regarded as on duty in the same post while charge is being transferred. In cases covered by
paragraph 2, the transfer of charge shall not ordinarily take more than four days, but this period


--- Page 737 ---
208 High Court Rules and Orders — Vol. IV
————
may be extended to 7 days under the written sanction of the Presiding Officer of the Court, and to
10 days under the written sanction of the District and Sessions Judge. In cases under paragraph 5,
not more than half a day should be allowed for the transfer of charge.

8. Frequent transfers of officials holding charge of records should be avoided.

9. These instructions do not apply to the transfer of charge of administrative files.

P ART E — PRODUCTION OF REVENUE RECORDS

1. Requisition to be made to Deputy Commissioner.—Requisitions by the High Court
or by Courts subordinate thereto for original Revenue recorded will be addressed to the Deputy
Commissioner, who will take measures to transmit such records to the High Court calling for
them. Such Court will be responsible for the safe custody of the records, and if in any case a
record is found to have been damaged in the Court concerned, the Deputy Commissioner will
report the fact to such Court and to the Financial Commissioner within twenty-four hours of its
being returned.

2. Production of records by a revenue official.—Original Revenue records will be
produced in Courts of first instance by the Special Kanungo, or Patwari Moharrir in accordance
with the instructions mentioned in paragraph 5 below.

3. Measures to obviate production of revenue record.—In every case it is the duty of
the Court to insist:--

(a) on the plaintiff filing with the plaint the statement required by paragraph 10(ii) of

Chapter 1-C, Rules and Orders, Vol. I;

(b) on both parties filing certified copies or extracts of all relevant entries on which they

rely.

4. Appellate Courts to avoid calling for original revenue record.—Appellate Courts
should refrain from calling for original records unless it is absolutely necessary for a determination
of the case, and, if the necessity arises from the neglect of a Court of first instance to comply with
the instructions here issued, such Courts should be severely dealt with by the Appellate Court in
the exercise of the functions of administrative control vested in it.

5. Excerpts from revenue records.—For the convenience of the public, excerpts from
the Revenue records are prepared by the Special Kanungo. For the detailed instructions regarding
the manner in which the services of the Special Kanungo are to be utilized, see Chapter 9, Volume
1, of the Rules and Orders.

PART F — DESTRUCTION OF RECORDS

Rules made by the Lahore High Court of Lahore under Section 3 of the Destruction of Records
Act, 1917, with the previous sanction of the Provincial Government for the disposal, by
destruction or otherwise, of such documents in the possession or custody of the Courts of Civil and
Criminal jurisdiction subordinate to the High Court as are, in the opinion of the High Court, not
of sufficient public value to justify their preservation.

RULES

A - General

1. Timely destruction of records.—All judicial records and registers which, under these
rules, become liable to destruction, shall be destroyed as soon as the period for their retention has
expired:

Provided that the District Judge in the case of Civil Judge records, the Sessions Judge in
the case of records of the Court of Sessions and the District Magistrate in the case of Magisterial
records may order, for reasons to be specified, that any particular paper or the record of any
particular case be preserved beyond such period].


--- Page 738 ---
High Court Rules and Orders — Vol. IV 209
————
2. Manner of destruction and disposal of waste paper.—The destruction of such
records and registers shall be carried out under the supervision of the Record Keeper and shall be
effected by tearing, care being taken that all Court-fee stamps have been duly cancelled. The paper
shall then be sent to the nearest paper-making jail (list given in rule (II) below) after first
ascertaining from the jail concerned whether it does require the waste paper. The paper should be
sold in the open market if the reply of the jail is in the negative; that sale-proceeds being credited
to the head “XXI — Administration of Justice — Miscellaneous Fees and Fines — Judicial
Record Room Receipts.”
Note (i): In the case of Small Cause Courts the work of destruction shall be carried out
under the supervision of the Registrar.
Note (ii): The following are the paper-making jails:

(1) Rawalpindi District Jail.

@ Multan District, Jail.

(3) Gujranwala District Jail.

(4) Sialkot District Jail.

Note (iii): Offices at Lahore should send their waste paper to the Central Jail, Lahore.

2-A. Documents of a secret or confidential nature should not be sold but destroyed by being

burnt under proper supervision.
B - Records

3. Arrangement of certain civil records in three part.—The following Civil Records

shall be arranged in three parts, A, A(i) and B, namely, those ofi--

(1) Suits involving the title to immovable property as defined in Section 3, clause 25, of the
General Clauses Act, 1897, other than suits for appears of rent, or for a share in the
produce, when the right is not disputed and only the amount contested;

(2) Suits relating to succession to an office, or to establish or set aside an adoption, or
otherwise determine the status of an individual, and all suits relating to trusts or
religious endowments.

(3) Proceedings under the Succession Act, 1925, and under the repealed Acts entered in
Schedule 9 of that Act.

(4) Proceedings under the Divorce Act, 1869.

Part A shall contain the following papers:--

(1) The index of papers.

(2) The order sheet or chronological abstract of orders.

(3) The plaint together with any schedule annexed thereto.

Note:- In miscellaneous cases the petition or written application of the party setting the
Court in motion will take the place of the plaint.

(4) The written statements and pleadings of the parties.

(5) The memorandum of issues with amended or additional issues, if any.

(6) All depositiods of witnesses.

(7) All documents received by the Court during the trial, as evidence between the parties
other than copies of Civil, Revenue or Municipal records.


--- Page 739 ---
210 High Court Rules and Orders — Vol. IV
————

(8) Commissions, proceedings held thereunder, and reports of Commissioners.

(9) Applications to refer to arbitration, the award or other final return of the arbitrators,
with the proceedings, depositions and documents submitted therewith, and any
application to set aside the award with the Court’s orders thereon.

(10) Instruments of withdrawal, compromise or confession of judgment.

(11) The judgment or other final order.

(12) The decree and all documents relating to the preparation or amendment thereof.

(13) All notes in the handwriting of the Judge.

(14) Any order by the Court accepting an application for review of judgment or for a new
trial.

(15) Judgments and decrees of Appellate Courts, if any.

(16) All orders passed in execution proceedings with all applications, objections, writs, of
which service has been effected, notices, reports and returns relating thereto.

(17) All receipts and acknowledgments filed in execution proceedings.

(18) Processes by which service is effected on the defendants in civil suits decided ex parte.

(19) Powers of attorney of Counsel or agents of parties.

Part A (i) shall contain the following papers:

(1) Copies of Civil, Revenue and Municipal record received by the Court during the trial as
evidence between the parties.

(2) Applications of parties who are_ strangers to the suit, with the Court’s orders thereon.

(3) Reports furnished by the Record Department.

(4) Orders of arrest or attachment before judgment with all documents relating thereto.

(5) Applications for review of judgment or for a new trial, with the Court's orders thereon,
other than orders accepting such applications.

Part B shall consist of all papers not included in Parts A and Afi):

4. Records to be divided into two parts A and B.—All other Civil records and all

Criminal records shall be arranged in two parts A and B.
5. Papers included in parts A and B of civil record.—In the case of such other Civil
Records Part A shall contain the following papers:--

(@) In original cases, other than those to which Rule 3 applies, heard by any Court other
than a Court of Small Causes.

Those papers specified in Rule 3 as contained in Parts A and Ai).

(®) In cases heard by a Court of Small Causes:

(1) The index of papers.

(2) The order sheet or chronological abstract of orders.

(3) The plaint with the papers annexed thereto.

(4) Any cross-claim set up by the defendant by way of set-of.

(5) All documents received by the Court during the trial as evidence between the parties.


--- Page 740 ---
High Court Rules and Orders — Vol. IV 211

————

(6) Any award of arbitrators, or deed of withdrawal, compromise or confession of
judgment.

(7) The judgments or other final order.

(8) The decree.

(9) All notes in the handwriting of the Judge.

(10) Any application for review of judgment, or for a new trial, with the Courts orders
thereon.

(11) Any order passed by the High Court as a Court of reference or revision.

(12) All orders passed in execution proceedings with all applications, writs of which service
has been effected, notices, reports and returns relating thereto.

(13) All receipts and acknowledgments filed in execution proceedings.

(14) Written statements of parties.

(15) Processes by which service is effected on the defendants in suits decided ex parte.

(16)  Powers-of-attorney of Counsel or agents of parties.

(c)  Inappeal cases:—

(1) The index of papers.

(2) The order sheet or chronological abstract of orders.

(3) The petition of appeal.

(4) Copies of judgments and decrees of Lower Courts.

(5) Any cross-objection filed by the respondent under Order XLI, Rule 22, of the Code of
Civil Procedure.

(6) Issues referred for trial by the Appellate Court, with the evidence and findings thereon.

(7) Commissioners’ proceedings held thereunder, and reports of Commissioners.

(8) Any additional evidence, oral or documentary admitted by the Appellate Court under
Order XLI, Rule 27, of the Code of Civil Procedure.

(9) Application to the Appellate Court to refer to arbitration, references, the award or other
final return of the arbitrators, with the proceedings, depositions and documents
submitted therewith and any applications to set aside the award, with the Court’s orders
thereon.

(10) Deeds of withdrawal, compromise of confession of judgment.

(11) The judgment or other final order.

(12) The decree of the Appellate Court.

(13) All notes in the handwriting of the Judge.

(14) Applications for review of judgment; with the Court’s orders thereon.

(15) Any judgment and decree of a superior Court of appeal.

(16)  Powers-of-attorney of Counsel or agents of parties.

Part B shall consist of all papers not included in Part A:

6. Papers included in parts — A and B of criminal record.—In the case of criminal


--- Page 741 ---
212 High Court Rules and Orders — Vol. IV
—
records Part A shall contain the papers noted below:

(a)  Inoriginal cases tried by a Court of Session:--

(1) The index of papers.

(2) The order sheet or chronological abstract of orders.

(3) The charge, original and as amended by the Sessions Judge.

(4) All depositions of witnesses and statements of accused persons, including depositions

and statements transferred from the file of the Committing Magistrate.

(5) All documentary evidence.

(6) The final order.

(7) The finding of the assessors or verdict of the jury.

(8) All notes in the handwriting of the Judge.

(9) The judgment or order of the High Court as a Court of appeal, reference or revision.

(10) Warrants returned after execution of sentence.

(11) All proceedings relating to the realization of fines.

(®)  InMagisterial inquiries and trials:--

(1) the index of papers.

(2) The order sheet or chronological abstract of orders.

(3) The final Police report (Challan), or petition of complaint.

(4) All depositions of witnesses and statements of accused persons.

(5) All documentary evidence.

(6) The charge, where a formal charge is drawn up.

(7) The final order of the Court.

(8) All notes in the handwriting of the Magistrate.

(9) The judgment of the Appellate Court, if any.

(10) The judgment of the High Court in revision, if any.

(11) Warrants returned after execution of sentence.

(12) All proceedings relating to the realization of fines.

(13) Bonds of for good behaviour taken under Section 110 of the Codes of Criminal

Procedure.

(©)  Inappeal cases--

(1) The index of papers.

(2) The order sheet or chronological abstract of orders.

(3) The petition of appeal.

(4) Copy of the judgment of the Lower Court.

(5) Any additional evidence taken under Section 428 of the Code of Criminal Procedure.


--- Page 742 ---
High Court Rules and Orders — Vol. IV 213
————

(6) The final order of the Court.

(7) All notes in the handwriting of the Judge.

Part B shall consist of all papers not included in Part A.

7. Records to be presented in perpetuity.—The following records shall be preserved in

perpetuity:--

(1) Part A of all suits and appeals involving title to immovable property as defined in
Section 3, clause 25, of the General Act, 1897.

Note: In suits for appears of rent or for a share in the produce, when the right is not
disputed and only the amount is contested clause I of Rule 12 will apply.

(2) Part A of all suits and appeals relating to the succession to an offence or to establish or
set aside an adoption or otherwise the status of an individual and of all suits and appeals
relating to trusts or religious endowments.

(3) Records of attachment, sale and delivery of immovable property in execution of
decrees, including all objections, proceedings and orders thereon.

(4) Part A of proceedings under the Succession Act of 1925, and the repealed Acts entered
in Schedule 9 of that Act.

(5) Part A of proceedings under the Divorce Act, 1869.

(6) Records relating to the disposal of immovable property forfeited to Government under
Section 62 of the Pakistan Penal Code.

(7) Insolvency proceedings under the Provincial Insolvency Act, 1920, where the Court has
decided a question of title to immovable property under Section 4 of the Act.

(8) Correspondence with other offices on matters connected with the administration of
justice, including annual reports and the statements appended thereto; provided that
heads of offices may, with the previous sanction of the District Judge, order the
destruction after three years, personally satisfying themselves, in regard to each paper
ordered to be destroyed, that its retention is no longer necessary.

Also, annual confidential reports on the work of Magistrates and subordinate Judges,
stipendiary and honorary, may be destroyed five years after the end of the year to
which they relate.

(9) Part A of proceedings under the Lunacy Act, IV of 1912.

(10) Part A of proceedings under the Companies Act, VII of 1913, and VI of 1882.

Note: A list of all papers which it is proposed to destroy under this clause must be
prepared, and, in the case of subordinate office, be submitted to the District Court for
sanction. This list will be preserved in perpetuity.

8. Records to be preserved for 60 years.—The following records shall be preserved for

sixty years and shall than be destroyed:-—-

(1) Part A of proceedings under Sections 7 and 8 of Regulation XVII of 1806.

9. Records to be preserved for 50 years.—The following records shall be preserved for

fifty years and shall be destroyed:--

[63 Part A of proceedings under the Guardians and Wards Act, 1890, and under Act XL of
1858 and IX of 1861, other than those in which the petitions have been rejected.

(2 Records of insolvency proceedings under all Act other than those falling within Rule
7(7) which have not been destroyed previously under Rules 11 and 13. The period of


--- Page 743 ---
214 High Court Rules and Orders — Vol. IV
————
fifty years shall be taken to run from date of the order of adjudication.

3) Part A of the case relating to any of the offences specified in Section 44 of the Code of
Criminal Procedure, as offences of which all persons are bound to give information, in
which any of the suspected persons have escaped apprehension; provided that,
whenever it is known that the offender or offenders on whose account such records are
kept, are dead, the records may be destroyed.

“ Part A of criminal cases in which the offence is punishable with death, and it is not
known who the offender is.

Note: The records specified in clauses 3 and 4 when the time comes, when under
ordinary circumstances they would be liable to destruction, shall be removed to a
separate bundle of cases of absconding and unknown offenders.

[©] Part A of Criminal cases in which a lunatic is concerned, unless the lunatic shall have
been subsequently tried or have died.

10. Records to be preserved for 20 years.—The following records shall be preserved for

twenty years and shall then be destroyed:--

(1) Part A (i) of the Civil records specified in Rule 3 above.

(2 The charge, finding and sentence in cases in which conviction has been had of an
offence for which enhanced punishment is provided on a second or subsequent
conviction.

(3) Part A of cases in which any public servant has been tried, whatever may have been the
result of the case.

(4) Part A of all civil suits and appeals, other than suits and appeals falling under Rule 7,
where one of the parties is a minor suing or used through a guardian under Order
XXXII, of the Code of Civil Procedure.

(5) Part A of Criminal cases relating to any offences other than those specified in Section
44 of the Code of Criminal Procedure in which any of suspected persons have escaped
apprehension provided that, whenever it is known that the suspected offender or
offenders on whose account such records are kept, are dead, the records may be
destroyed.

11. Records to be preserved for 12 years.—The following records shall be preserved for
twelve years and shall then be destroyed unless their preservation for a longer period is necessary
on the special grounds noted below:--

(1) Part A of Sessions case: provided that, if the sentence has been fully executed, the

record shall be preserved until the return of the warrant, and then destroyed.

(2) Part A of cases under Chapter XXXVI of the Code of Criminal Procedure in which
maintenance is awarded.

(3) Insolvency proceedings under Chapter XX of the Code of Civil Procedure, 1882, or
under the Provincial Insolvency Acts, where immovable property is involved. The
period shall be taken to run from the date of the order of the Court declaring the
insolvent discharge from further liability in respect of the schedule debts.

(4) Part A of proceedings under the Guardian and Wards Act, 1809, and under Act XL of
1858 and IX of 1861 in which the petitions have been rejected.

12. Records to be preserved for 6 years.—The following records shall be preserved for

six years and shall then be destroyed unless their preservation for a longer period is necessary of
any of the special grounds noted below:--


--- Page 744 ---
High Court Rules and Orders — Vol. IV 215
————
(1) Part A of all Civil suits and appeals other than suits and appeals falling under Rule 7:
provided that, if the decree has not been fully executed or become incapable of further
execution. Part A must be preserved until such time as the decree has been fully
executed or become incapable of further execution.
Note 1: A note of all cases destroyed in District offices under this clause shall be made
at the time of destruction in the list of cases put up with the village bundle.
Note 2: In January, April, July and October, each year, the record-keeper will receive
Civil Courts, - vide paragraph 1 of Chapter 16-A, Part III, Rules and Orders, Volume
1V, lists of execution cases in respect of records which are six years, old or about to
become six years’ old in which decrees have been fully executed or have become
incapable of further execution cases in respect of records which are six years, old or
about to become six years” old in which decrees have been fully executed or have
become incapable of further execution. On the receipt of these lists, the record-keeper
should make a note to this effect on each file and he should not destroy any file unless it
contains that note without ascertaining whether the decree has been fully executed or
has become incapable of further execution.
Note 3: Only such portion of the record, if any, as relates to the attachment, sale and
delivery of immovable property in execution of decrees, including all objections,
proceedings, and others thereon should be taken out and preserved permanently as
required by rule 7 when the record is destroyed under rule 12.

(2) Part A of cases tried by the Magistrate of the District under Section 30 of the Code of
Criminal Procedure, in which he has inflicted a heavier punishment than might have
been inflicted by a Magistrate of the first class; provided that, if the sentence has not
been fully executed, the record shall be preserved until the return of the warrant and
then destroyed.

(3) Records relating to the realization of fines of Criminal Courts.

13. Records to be preserved for 3 years.—The following records shall be preserved for

three years and shall then be destroyed.

(1) Insolvency proceedings under Chapter XX of the Code of Civil Procedure, 1882, or
under the Provincial Insolvency Acts where no immovable property is involved. The
period shall be taken to run from the date of the order of the Court declaring the
insolvent discharged from further liability in respect of the scheduled debts.

(2) Records of criminal cases inquired into or tried by Magistrates and not otherwise
provided for in these rules.

(3) Part A of appeals from orders passed by the Magistrates.

(4) All correspondence between the District Magistrate or District Judge and Subordinate
Courts, and other records, periodical statements, reports, proceedings, applications, etc.,
not expressly provided for in these rules; provided that, in respect of records falling
under this clause, heads of offices must exercise their discretion in preserving report,
return and proceedings likely to be usefully in the future, as containing the result of
inquiries or other information, or the opinions of experienced officers on matters
connected with the general administration of justice.

14. Records to be preserved for 1 year.—The following records shall be preserved

for one year and shall then be destroyed:--

(1) Part B of all civil and criminal cases and appeals provided that papers relating to
deposits and payments thereof shall be separated and preserved until such time as the
accounts of the deposits and repayments concerned have been audited and any
objections raised in connection therewith have been finally settled and that Part B of


--- Page 745 ---
216 High Court Rules and Orders — Vol. IV

————
civil cases, and civil appeals in which a first or a second appeals lies to the High Court,
shall not be destroyed until the period of limitation for instituting such an appeal has
expired or until the appeal, if instituted, is decided by the High Court.

(2) Proceedings of other Courts and officers forwarding notices, proclamations, calling for

records, etc.

15. Mode of reckoning period.—The periods prescribed above shall, except in the case
noted below, be taken to run from the date of the final order of the Court of first instance, or, in the
event of an appeal, or revision from that of decision of the appeal or revision.

In cases under Chapter XXXVI of the Code of Criminal Procedure, in which
maintenance is awarded, the period shall be taken to run from the date of the last order passed for
the enforcement of the award.

16. Notes of destruction.—(i) When under the above rules the whole of the papers of Part
A of the record are destroyed, a note to the effect shall be made, at the time of destruction, against
the entry of the case in the Goshwara. In the case of the record offences of District and Sessions
Courts where no Goshwaras are kept, the note shall be made against the entry of the case in the
General Register.

(ii) When some only of the papers Part A of the record and destroyed and some are
retained, a note of the papers destroyed shall be made, at the time of destruction’ on the fly index
of the case.

(ili) All notes made under the above instructions (i) and (ii) shall be attested by the Record-
Keeper.

(iv) No note whatever need be made of the destruction of Part B of a record.; Such
destruction will be presumed to have been effected in accordance with Rule 14 above.

17. Preservation of papers belonging to Government or private persons.—Before
destroying Part A of any judicial proceedings, care must be taken to peparate and remove from the
record all documents belonging to private serious or to Government, as a party to the proceedings,
which have not been superseded by the decree or impounded in the case in which they were
produced. These documents shall be preserved and tried up in a separate parcel, and notice shall,
whenever practicable, be given to the persons who produced them in Court, requiring them to take
them into their own keeping within six months from the date of the notice, and warning them that
they will be kept at their risk, and that the Court declines all responsibility for them. Copies of this
notice should also be put up in a conspicuous place of the Court-house of the Deputy
Commissioner of the District, and of the Court in which the suit was tried, or, if such Court has
been abolished, of such other Court or Courts as may be exercising jurisdiction in lieu of it. Heads
of offices must make the best arrangements for the custody of these documents that the
circumstances admit of. In District offices it will probably be most convenient to keep them with
the appropriate village bundles.

18. Registers to be preserved in perpetuity.—The following judicial registers shall be
preserved in perpetuity:—

Civil registers Nos. I, IL, III, IV, V, XV and XXIV.

Criminal Registers Nos. VII, VIII and XVI.

19. Register to be preserved for 50 years.—The following registers shall be preserved for
fifty years from the date of the last entry and shall then be destroyed:

Civil Registers Nos. XXVI and XXVIII

Criminal Register No. IX.

Miscellaneous Register J and L.


--- Page 746 ---
High Court Rules and Orders — Vol. IV 217
————
20. Registers to be preserved for 20 years.—The judicial registers shall be preserved for
twenty years for the date of the last entry and shall then be destroyed:-—
Civil Registers Nos. X, XI and XIII.
Criminal Register Nos. II and X.
Miscellaneous Registers Nos. A, K and N.

21. Registers to be preserved for 12 years.—The following judicial registers shall be

preserved for twelve years from the date of the last entry and shall then be destroyed: -
Civil Registers Nos. VI and XIV.
Criminal Registers Nos. I, III, IV and XIV.

22. Registers to be preserved for 6 years.—The following judicial registers shall be

preserved for six years from the date of the last entry and shall then be destroyed:-—
Civil Registers Nos. XVI, XVIII, XXI-A, XXI-B and XXV.
Criminal Register No. XV.
Miscellaneous Registers B and C.

23. Registers to be preserved for 3 years.—The following judicial registers shall be

preserved for three years from the date of the last entry and shall be destroyed:---
Civil Registers Nos. VII, VIII, IX, XII, XVII, XXI-C, XXII and XXIII
Criminal Registers Nos. V, VI, XI, XXII and XXIII.
Miscellaneous Registers D, E, F, G, H, I, P and Q.

24. Instruction regarding destruction of Civil Register No. XX and Miscellaneous
Register M.—Civil Register No.XX and Miscellaneous Register M should be treated as follows:--

When a book is full, the names of the peons still in service of the petition-writers still
holding licences should be copied into a new register and the old register destroyed.

25. No judicial registers to be destroyed.—No judicial Registers shall be destroyed as
directed above.

D — Other Papers

126. Regarding personal file of officers, and ministerial and menial servants.—No
personal files of all officers and ministerial and menial servants of Government. Also, annual
confidential reports on the work of Magistrates and Civil Judges, may be destroyed five years after
the end of year to which they relate.

(a) who die while in service, shall be preserved for three years after their death and then

destroyed, provided there are no outstanding claims on the part of their heirs; and

(b) Who have retired, shall be preserved until their death and then destroyed, provided that

on file shall be destroyed before three years from date of retirement when death occurs
within three years of retirement.

27. Destruction of vouchers relating to contingencies.—Vouchers relating to
contingencies should be preserved for 3 years and then destroyed, this period being reckoned from
Ist January following the date of payment.

!Added by item (iii) of Correction Pamphlet No.3, dated 3rd October, 1956.


--- Page 747 ---
218 High Court Rules and Orders — Vol. IV
————
28. Preservation of records relating to Sheriffs’ Petty and Civil Courts Deposit
Accounts.—The records relating to Sheriffs” Petty and Civil Court Deposit Accounts shall be
preserved for the period noted against each in the sub-joined statements.
CIVIL COURT DEPOSIT ACCOUNTS
AND FORMS proposed to preserve the
systems) audit
system) (Form 28, Civil Account Code,
Volume 1)
47, civil Account Code, Volume II).
No.29, Civil Account Code, Volume I).
Voucher systems) (Form No. 30 Civil
Account Code, Volume I).
etc. audit
Books/Cheque Books audit.


--- Page 748 ---
High Court Rules and Orders — Vol. IV 219
SHERIFFS’ PETTY ACCOUNTS
SHERIFFS’ PETTY ACCOUNTS REGISTERS AND FORMS
Old Number Heading Period for which it is proposed to preserve
the registers
Form3 ‘Cash Book Register C | Showing receipts and disbursements and | Permanently
cash balance in hand of Agent each da
[Forma —— [TreasuyPassBooks | = [= 7 [Pemaenty |
book
Form6 Register of Processes received and Register D | Register of Processes received and Three years from the date of the last entry, but
disposed disposed of the Agent subject to the condition mentioned against
Form 8
Form§ Payment Order form Form | Court Payment order One year from the date of last audit and if at
the last audit any objection was raised in
connection with any documents or records the
should be retained until the next audit, and
should not be destroyed until one year has
elapsed since the removal of the objection
originally raised.
Form J (@ Memo. To accompany remiltance of
surplus money to the treasury
Form 9 Challan Form 6 years
Form L (©) Consolidated Memo. Of remittance
to the treasury
[Fomi0 — [ChequeForm | [7 T8yes
Form 11 Statement of lapsed deposit (From 20 Permanently
Civil Account Code Volume I)
Form 12 Voucher for refund of lapsed deposits 3 years
Form No.30, Civil Account Code, Volume
)
Form 13 Stock Book of Forms of Receipt Books | Form M Stock Book of Forms “As against Form No.§
and Cheque Books


--- Page 749 ---
220 High Court Rules and Orders — Vol. IV
Bo
CHAPTER -18
LIBRARIES
Instructions regulating the supply, care and custody of books of reference, Acts of the
Legislature and legal periodicals required for use of Civil and Criminal Courts under
the Lahore High Court, Lahore.

1. Books of reference, Acts of the Legislature and legal periodicals required for the use of
civil and criminal Courts are to be obtained as follows:--

(a) Books of reference and Acts of the Legislature entered in the lists in paragraphs 4 and 5
and in the Appendix to these rules may, subject to budget provision, be purchased from
any law publisher in Pakistan and India Books not on the lists cannot be purchased
without the previous sanction of the High Court and no book can be added to the lists
without similar sanction.

(b) District and Sessions Judges alone have the power to sanction purchase of prescribed
books for their own Courts and for Courts of Small Causes and Courts of Subordinate
Judges under paragraph 20.8 (Serial No. 18) of the Punjab Financial Rules, Volume I(.
Payment, however, will be made by a District and Sessions Judge only in respect of
books required by him or by an Additional District and Sessions Judge, by a Senior
Subordinate Judge in respect of books required by him and by all Subordinate Judges in
his district, and by a Judge, Court of Small Causes, in respect of books required for that
Court, the expenditure in cach case being debited to the grants for “Other
Contingencies” under “District and Sessions Judges,” “Subordinate Judges or “Courts
of Small Causes”, as the case may be, in respect of which the officers named are
disbursing officers under paragraph 20.8 (Serial No. 1) of the Punjab Financial Rules,
Volume L.

Criminal Courts other than those of Sessions Judges being under the control of the
District Magistrate for purposes of budget, will be governed by the procedure laid down
in Chapter 7 of the District Office Manual.

(6) Acts or the Legislature, Codes and Manuals as published by the Provincial Government
are supplied free of cost by the Superintendent, Government Printing, Punjab, to Courts
approved by the Provincial Government.

(d) Acts of the Legislature and all official publications of the Central Government and
Governments of other provinces are obtained on payment from the Superintendent of
the Press or Book Depot of the Government concerned, the cost being debited to “57-
Miscellaneous-Cost of Books and Periodicals” where payment is required to be made
by book adjustment, or as provided in paragraph (b) where cash payment is required to
be made, such payment being remitted cither by money order, or by cheque on the
National Bank or on any other local bank or Remittance Transfer Receipt, direct to the
Superintendent, Government Printing, or to the Book Depot, of the Government
concerned. This applies also to all Codes and Manuals, etc., issued by the Auditor-
General and his subordinate audit officers, and the Defence Department.

(¢) Pakistan Law Reports, all series, which are also official publications of the various
Governments in Pakistan and Burma, are obtainable and paid for as provided in sub-
paragraph (d).

(f) The Post and Telegraph Guide and the Telephone Directory are to be obtained on cash
payment from the Post and Telegraph Department.

2. Nothing in the foregoing instructions is to be deemed to sanction the purchase of any
book from a publisher not in Pakistan. Special application must be made to the High Court in the
event of it becoming necessary to obtain for any civil or criminal Court a book not procurable in
Pakistan, whether such book is or is not on the lists of approved books. In submitting such


--- Page 750 ---
High Court Rules and Orders — Vol. IV 21
—
applications the District and Sessions Judge or the District Magistrate, as the case may be, should
specify the name of the publisher, the published price and whether budget provision is sufficient to
meet the cost of the book and all incidental charges connected therewith. Such books will not be
purchased by placing an order direct with the publisher but by addressing the indent to the High
Commission for Pakistan, Public Department, it is possible to obtain them at a discount on
publishers’ prices.

3. The responsibility for the existence of sufficient budget provision to met the cost of
books, Acts and legal periodicals purchased under these rules rests entirely with the disbursing
officers, that is, the District and Sessions Judge, and District Magistrate, the Judge, Court of Small
Causes, and the Senior Subordinate Judge, as the case may be. These officers are also responsible
to see that adequate provision for books admissible to Courts under these rules is suggested at the
time of the preparation of budget estimates cach year.

4. The following minimum books have been prescribed by the High Court for the library
of cach civil and criminal Court presided over the English-speaking Judges and Magistrates:-—-

A = Books for libraries of every Civil Court

(1) Annotated editions of:--

(a) The Code of Civil Procedure.

(b) The Evidence Act.

(c) The Contract Act.

(d) The Limitation Act.

(¢) The Specific Relief Act.

(f) The Punjab Pre-emption Act.

(9) The Court Fees Act.

(h) The Registration Act.

(i) The Punjab Land Revenue and Tenancy Act.
() The Stamp Act, 1899.

(2) Rattigan’s Digest of Customary Law, and Customary Law or Riwaj-i-Am of the
district.

(3) Civil Digest of the Punjab Record and Pakistan Law Reports, Lahore Series.

(4) Manuals on:-—-

(a) Muhammadan Law.
(b) Hindu Law and Usage.

(5) The Unbrepeable Central Courts.

(6) The Punjab Code.

(7) The High Court Rules and Orders, Volumes I, II, IV and VI-A.

B — Books for libraries of every Criminal Court

(1) Annotated editions of:

(a) The Penal Code.
(b) The Code of Criminal Procedure.


--- Page 751 ---
222 High Court Rules and Orders — Vol. IV

2 edCounuwesancOrders— ob
(c) The Evidence Act.
(d) The Stamp Act, 1899.

(2) Criminal Digest of the Punjab Record and Pakistan law Reports, Lahore Series.

(3) The Punjab Code.

(4) The Criminal Acts in force in Punjab.

(5) The High Court Rules and Orders, Volumes III, IV and VI-B.

(6) A handbook for Magistrates by Rai Sahib Lala Labhu Ram.

Only those annotated editions of Acts, Codes, Digests and Manuals prescribed of
libraries in this paragraph will be obtained as are specified in the Appendix to these rules.

'[4-A. One set of all series of the Pakistan Law Reports only will be obtained by a District and
Sessions Judge or where there is no District and Sessions Judge at the headquarters of a district —
by the Senior Sub-Judge, for use of all Civil and Criminal Courts in the district. Every Civil and
Criminal Court, however, will obtain one copy of the Lahore Series only).

5. The Appendix to these rules contains lists of books which may be purchased in
accordance with Paragraphs 1 and 2 for various classes of civil and criminal Courts in addition to
those mentioned in paragraph 4. A new edition or publication or vernacular edition of any work
may be substituted for the edition or work specified in the lists.

6. The arrangement or libraries of criminal Courts other than Sessions Courts will be
governed by the instructions contained in Chapter 7 of the District Office Manual.

7. A catalogue shall be maintained in all District and Sessions Courts and Courts of Small
Causes in respect of books, Act and other publications supplied or obtained for their use, and in all
Senior Subordinate Judges’ Courts for these Courts and all Subordinate Judges in the same
district. The catalogue maintained in Senior Subordinate Judges’ Courts shall contain separate lists
for cach Court of Subordinate Judge to which books, etc., have been supplied by the Senior
Subordinate Judge, a copy of such lists being supplied to the presiding officer of cach such Court;
similar procedure will be adopted where a District and Sessions Judge’s Court supplies books to
an Additional District and Sessions Judge and where a Court of Small Causes supplies books to an
Additional Judge of such Court. The catalogue which should be a blank register carefully ruled
out, will contain the following columns:---

(a) Serial number.

( Name of work.

(6) The edition or date of publication.

(d) The cost, if any.

(6) Date of receipt.

(f) Date when it ceases to be in the Court library, and reason for same, c.g. transfer,
weeded out, lost, etc.

(2) Remarks.

8. As soon as a new book is received either by purchase or otherwise it must be stamped
on the title page and in several places in the volume with the seal of the purchasing or receiving (if
not by purchase) office and entered in the catalogue, and when any book has from any cause
ceased to be in the library of any Court a note should be made in the catalogue of the manner in
!(C.P. No.15 of 24th February, 1948.)


--- Page 752 ---
High Court Rules and Orders — Vol. IV 223
—
which it has been disposed of.

9. Presiding Officers of Courts will be held personally responsible for arrangements made
in accordance with these rules for the custody of books and the maintenance of catalogues and
lists. The following officials shall hold charge of the library of a Court under the control of the
Presiding Officers:

(i) District and Sessions Judge's Court Clerk of Court and English Clerk

(i) Court of small Causes Clerk of Court

(iii) Senior subordinate judge’s Court Clerk of court

(iv) subordinate Judge’s Court Reader of Ahlmad at places where there is

no permanent Civil Judge.

In the cases of (i) to (iii), the presiding officer may appoint any other Clerk to assist the
official-in-charge without any lessening of the responsibility of the latter, provided that the Reader
in such case shall hold charge of books kept in a Court room for the presiding officer’s daily use
and provided further that in no case shall a mental be required to perform any responsible duty
connected with the custody of books other than what may ordinarily be expected of a menial.
These officials shall be personally responsible the presiding officer for the proper arrangement of
books, and their receipt and issue; and for their protection from inspects, etc. they should ensure’
that all books are removed from almirahs or other place of keep at least one a quarter and
thoroughly dusted; the most convenient way to do this where large libraries are maintained is to
remove the contents of shelves in rotation at fixed intervals, say, of a week or ten days, so that the
tum of cach shelf will come round at least once in three months. [In the case of (iv) the Ahlmad
shall be responsible for looking after the Court library at places where there is no permanent Civil
Judge. It will, however, be necessary that each time the Reader goes on tour with the Presiding
Officer he should inspect the library to see that the Ahlmad is looking after it properly].

(ii) [At the end of the rule add “In the case of (iv), the Ahlmad shall be responsible for
looking after the Court library at places where there is no permanent Civil Judge. It will, however,
be necessary that each time the Reader goes on tour with the Presiding Officer he should inspect
the library to see that the Ahlmad is looking after the properly.”

10. It will be the duty of the Reader to each Court to see that no unauthorized persons are
allowed to remove or otherwise tamper with the books in the Court room. He shall see that the
Court room is locked before he leaves for the day. -

11. A peon or an orderly of cach Court will be responsible for the dusting of the books of
the library or the Court room and he shall see that the dusting is done without disturbing the under
the books.

12. No book shall be issued from the library without a written requisition for it. The
requisition will be placed where the book was and should be destroyed or returned when the book
is restored to its place. If a book is not returned, the official-in-charge as described in paragraph 9
will enquire for it and invariably submit monthly reports to the presiding officer of books removed
and not returned.

13. Bach series of Law Reports and other legal periodicals published serially will be kept
on a separate file till the series is complete and when it is complete be bound into volumes and
brought on to the catalogues and lists.

14. All correction slip of various Acts Manuals, codes, and Rules and Orders of the High
Court, shall be inserted as soon as they are received. To ensure that this is done in respect of the
Rules and Orders of the High Court, a register shall be maintained in cach Court by the officials
named in paragraph 9 in which the number and date of every correction slip received shall be


--- Page 753 ---
224 High Court Rules and Orders — Vol. IV
—
entered with the date of receipt also noted therein; they will have the entry attested by the
presiding officer of the Court in token of the correction slips having been pasted in the relevant
volumes, and the presiding officer must see that no undue delay occurs in cach pasting.

15. When a change of presiding officers of a civil or Criminal Court takes place, the
relieving officer will satisfy himself on taking over charge of office that the library of the Court is
complete, that the books are in good condition and that the catalogues or lists, as the case may be,
are up-to-date. Any deficiencies will at once be brought to the notice of the Court to which he is
subordinate.

16. Once a year, as soon after the 1st January as possible, every presiding officer of a Civil
Court shall submit through the District and Sessions Judge for the orders of the High Court, a list
of book and publications which he thinks should be weeded out of his library. Books to weeded
out with the sanction of the High Court shall be sold in the local market and the proceeds credited
in the local treasury under the head “XXI — Administration of Justice Miscellaneous” All books
sold to private persons must be endorsed ‘sold; with signature on the title page. Care must be
taken by al concerned that no book is suggested for weeding out unless it is quite clear that it is of
no use and that orders by the High Court for the sale of weeded out books is subject to the
condition that the books are not of any use of other Courts or officers in the district. Criminal
Courts will act in this matter as provided in Chapter 7 of the District Office Manual.

17. The books in the library of every Court shall be checked annually in the month of
March by the presiding officers and the result reported to the District and Sessions Judge and the
District Magistrate by civil Courts and criminal Courts, respectively. The District and Sessions
Judge and the District Magistrate shall then by the 31st of the same month, report to the High
Court the result of the check including that of their own Courts. All presiding officers should
remember that these annual inspections must not be performed perfunctorily.

18. Personal responsibility must be fixed for all losses of books and in doing so regard shall
be paid whether the rules for the care, custody and checking of books have or have not been
observed by all concerned. The Provincial Government have decided that they will not hesitate to
recover the cost of missing books from those concerned where the loss is found to be due to any
failure, even on the part of a presiding officer, to comply with rules. It will only be when personal
responsibility is not enforceable that losses will be written off — by the High Court where District
and Sessions Courts and other civil Courts are concerned, and by the Commissioner or the Deputy
Commissioner where Criminal Courts are concerned, under paragraph 20.17 (Serial No. 6) of
Punjab Financial Rules, Volume I.

19. Inspecting Officers should be careful to satisfy themselves that the catalogues or list
prescribed in these rules or in the District Office Manual, as the case may be, in regard to a Civil
Court or Criminal Court, respectively, are properly kept up, that the books, Acts and periodical
publications are complete and in good condition, and that where Acts and periodical publications
are required by these rules to be bound, they are duly bound into volumes.

APPENDIX
LIST OF BOOKS AND ACTS WHICH MAY BE SUPPLIED TO COURTS IN THE
PROVINCE SUBJECT TO THERE BEING BUDGET PROVISION TO MEET THE
COST
Note: New editions or publications of any work mentioned in this list may be
substituted for the edition or work here specified. Vernacular editions of any Work specified in the
list the included.
PART -1
(For the use of every Civil and Criminal Courts)
1. Acts of the Legislature.


--- Page 754 ---
High Court Rules and Orders — Vol. IV 225
—

2. Indian Evidence Act Women.

3. Income Tax Ordinance.

4. Law relating to Motor Vehicles in Pakistan.

5. Punjab Code.

6. Punjab Records (Judicial part only).

7. Indian Law Reports (Lahore Series).

8. Complete Digest of the Punjab Cases Law, 1866 — 1932.

9. Punjab Digest, 1900-1926.

10. The Punjab Digest, 1931-1918.

11. Indian Digest (Civil, Criminal and Revenue); Quinqueniai Digest, Decennial Digest and
Yearly Digests.

12. High Court Rules and Orders.

13. Concise Law Dictionary.:

14. Universal Ready Reckoner.

15. Concise Oxford Dictionary.

16. Rahnuma-i-amala-i-Muharran,

17. Notable Judgments of Judge Young, edited by Bankey Behari and Sri Ram.

18. The Punjab and North-West Frontier Province Acts (Civil, Criminal and Revenue) the
Punjab Acts (Civil, Criminal and Revenue) Important Punjab Acts with Commentary,
by Kazi Muhammad Ashraf.”

19. Stamp Act.

20. A Treatise on the Law of Contempt of court.

21. Annual Medical List published by the Punjab Medical Council.

22. The Cantonments At, 1924 and the Cantonments (House Accommodation) Act, 1923.

23. Holy Bible.

24. For Necessary Act, speeches and judgments by Sir Douglas Young edited by Shri Ram
and V.M. Kulkarni.

25. All Indian Comparative Tables.

26. Table showing the corresponding dates of the Christian Era and the Higri and Bankers
Era from 1880-1950.

27. Cross-examination.

PART-II
(For the use of every Civil Court, in addition to works in Part I)
1. Code of Civil Procedure by A. Amir Raza.
2. Contract Act and Specific Relief Act or the Law of Contracts.


--- Page 755 ---
226 High Court Rules and Orders — Vol. IV
—

3. Sale of Goods Act by M.G. Hussain.

4. Specific Relief Act by Ch. Naseem.

5. Limitation Act Law of Limitation and prescription in Pakistan including Easements.

6. Court-fees and- Suit Valuation Act (M.G. Hussain), or the Law regulating Court-fees
and Jurisdiction (Students abridged edition) By D.C. Obhai.

7. Stamp Law (in Urdu).

8. Provincial Small Cause Courts Act.

9. Registration Act -by Mulla by M.G. Hussain.

10. Usurious Loans Act.

11. Negotiable Instruments Act by M.G. Hussain

12. Civil Court Manual (Kazim Khan) or the Civil Court Manu 1.

13. Punjab Courts Act.

14. Punjab, Alienation of Land Act.

15. Punjab Pre-emption Act by Noor Elahi.

16. Punjab Municipal Act with Small Towns and Executive Officer Act Municipal Law and
Practice.

17. Punjab Small Towns Act.

18. Punjab Tenancy Act.

19. Punjab Land Revenue Act by Ch. Naseem.

20. Hindu Law.

21. Wilson’s Anglo-Muhammadan Law or Mulla’s Muhammadan Law by Ali Hassan

22. Marriage and Dower under the Muhammadan Law by Ali Hassan.

23. Marriage and Dissolution of Marriage in Muslim Law.

24. Digest of Civil Law for the Punjab.

25. Customary Law in the Punjab.

26. Transfer of Property Act by M.G. Hussain.

27. Law relating to mortgage in the Punjab.

28. Law of execution.

29. Law of Torts (Ratan Lal).

30. Twenty-four years’ Calendar from 1917 to 1940.

31. Rahnuma-i-Amla-i-Tamil.

32. Law of Partnership by Tirath Das Sehgal or Indian Partnership Act by Pollock and
Mulla Or Law and Practice of Partnership and Private Companies.

33. Punjab Relief of Indebtedness Act.

34. Customary Law Series.

35. Handbook of procedure and every day civil law.


--- Page 756 ---
High Court Rules and Orders — Vol. IV 227
—
36. Punjab Debtor’s Protection Act.
37. Hire-Purchase, by V.S. Nayyar and C.L. Varma.
38. Relief Legislation in the Punjab.
39. Land Alienation Act with Bedami Laws.
40. Easements. and Licenses by K.N. Joshi, or Law of Easements by Naveed Abbas.
41. The Law Lexicon.
42. Law of Arbitration by Ch. Ahsanul Hag.
43. Law and Practice of Conveyancing by M.G. Hussain Dutt’s Law of Conveyancing.
PART-III
(For the use of every Criminal Court, in addition to works in Part I)
I. Law of Fatal Accidents by Key Law Reports.
2. Pakistan Penal Code by M.A. Zafar.
3. Code of Criminal Procedure by Nazam.
4. Police Act by S.A. Abid.
5. Public Gambling Act.
6. Pakistan and Punjab Criminal Acts or local and special Laws (Criminal) Court Manual
(Imperial Acts) published by the Mardras Law Journal Office all India Digest, 1931-
1940 (Criminal and yearly Digest, published by Madras Weekly Notes Office.
7. Administration of Cantonments (Lincoln).
8. Police Diaries and Statements (AK. Khan).
9. Handbook for Magistrates.
10. Medico-legal Court Compensation (M.G. Hussain).
11. Outlines of Medical Jurisprudence (Lyon).
12. Taylor’s Medical Jurisprudence.
13. Classification and Uses of Finger Prints. (Henry)
14. Criminal Practice by (S.A. Abid).
15. Law relating to bails in criminal matters by Ram Lal Anand.
16. Arms Ord. Manual or Arms Act Law of Arms and Explosives of Law or Arms in
Pakistan by M.A. Zafar.
17. Law relating to Electricity by G.M. Hussain.
PART-IV
(For the library of (1) District and Sessions Judges and (2) Senior Sub-Judges or Additional
Judges, in addition to the works in parts I, H and IIL.
1. Asccond annotated edition of Penal Code


--- Page 757 ---
228 High Court Rules and Orders — Vol. IV
—

2. Asccond annotated edition of Criminal Procedure Code.

3. A second annotated edition of Civil Procedure Code.

4. Negotiable Instruments Act.

5. Land Acquisition Act by S.A. Abid.

6. Guardians and Wards Act by S.A. Abid.

7. Law relating to Minors by Trevelyon

8. Companies Act by M.A. Zafar.

9. Law of Transfers of Property by Ch. Nascem.

10. Law of Mortgages.

11. Copyright Act and Regulations, 1914 and Laws relating to published by Majad Bashir.

12. The Law of Copyright by Awais Khalid.

13. Legal Practitioner’s Act by M. Javid Iqbal.

14. Professional Ethics.

15. Provincial Insolvency Act by M.J.D. Arian.

16. Succession Act (Act XXXIX of 1925) by S.A. Abid.

17. Railways Act, IX of 1890 by M.J.D. Arian.

18. Law of Carries and Railways.

19. Law of Arbitration by M.G. Hussain.

20. Law of compromise.

21. Law of Principles of Co-operation.

22. Stamp Law and Practice by S.A. Abid.

23. Jail Manual.

24. Police Rules.

25. Police Reports and Investigation by M.K.A. Khan.

26. Police Diaries and Statement by MK.A. Khan.

27. Law of Accomplice and Approver by M.K.A. Khan.

28. Registration Manual.

29. Law of Excise in the Punjab by Pindi Dass and Des Raj Bhasin.

30. Law of Contract by Asmat Kamal.

31. Principles of Contract by Pollock.

32. Anson on Contracts.

33. Digest of the Law of Partnership by Lindley.

34. Law of Agency by Bowstead or Katiar.

35. Hindus Law, by Mayne or Gour.

36.  Muhammadan Law by Amir Ali or Tyabji or Sexena.


--- Page 758 ---
High Court Rules and Orders — Vol. IV 229
—

37. Treatise on Customary Law in the Punjab by Rustomyji.

38. Central Punjab Customs by N.H. Prenter.

39. Law of Torts by Pollock.

40. Mayne on Damages, or a Treatise on the Damages and Compensation in British India,
by C. Kameswara Rao.

41. Kerr on Fraud and Mistake.

42. Banking Law and Practice in India by M.L. Tannon.

43. Tagore Law Lectures (as published).

44. Cantoment Laws in India by Kidar Nath.

45. Science of Jurisprudence, by Salmond.

46. Conflict of Laws, by Dicey.

47. Doctrine of Res Judicata by Bower.

48. Mogha’s Pleadings.

49. Law of Estoppel by Bower on Everst and Stroud.

50. Law of Injunctions by Kerr and Basu.

51. Treatise on the Law of Easements and Licensee in British India (Katiar).

52. Principles of Equity, by Snell.

53. Common Law, by Odgers.

54. Maxwell on Interpretation of Statutes.

55. Forbes Hindustani and English and English and Hindustani Dictionary.

56. Platt’s Hindustani Dictionary.

57. Standard English Urdu Dictionary by Abdul Haq.

58. Law Lexicon, by Wharton.

59. Stroud’s Judicial Dictionary.

60. Legal Maxims by Broom.

61. All India Consolidated Digest, 1811-1934 (Criminal). Three volumes by Desai.

62. All India Consolidated Digest, 1811 to 1934 (Civil), 9 volumes by Desai.

63. Pal’s Civil and Criminal References.

64. Desai’s Index of Case Judicially noticed.

65. A compilation of orders on the subject of the personal conduct of Public Officers in
their relation to Government by G.K. Roy.

66. Time and Fare Table of the North-Western Railway or in the case of districts served by
Railways other than the North-Western Railway, the Time and Fare Table of the
Railway concerned.

67. Law of adoption in India and Burma by J.L. Kapur.

68. Dr. Nand Lal’s Law and Doctrine of Res Judicata.


--- Page 759 ---
230 High Court Rules and Orders — Vol. IV
—

69. Workmen's Compensation Act, by P.R. Aiyar and S.K. Iyer or by Narinjan Singh or by
AG. Clow.

70. Commentaries on the Indian Trusts Act by S.K. Aiyar (as an alternative to “Law of
Trusts in British India” comprising one of the series of Tagore Law Lectures in item 43
above).

71. Northern Indian Canal and Drainage Act by (R.N. Rao).

72. Hindu Law applicable to the Punjab (Rust).

73. Benami Transaction (Ghosh).

74. Government of India Act, 1935.

75. Contested Documents and Forgeries (Brewester).

76. Law and Procedure of Execution (Bhaumik).

77. Finger Prints (Brewester).

78. Police Finger Print Bureau Manual.

79. Law of Fraud and Fraudulent Transfer (Dhodi).

80. Law of Gift in British India (Bimla Charan).

81. Indian Partition Act (Balwant Singh).

82. Law of Promissory Notes (Aiyar).

83. Law of Provident Fund (Duct).

84. Law of Receivers (Basu).

85. Law relating to Official Receiver (Rao).

86. Government of India Act, by C.L. Anand or Law of the Indian Constitution by
Ramswamy.

87. Law of Insurance Bishan Nath.

88. Laws of India by Doulat Ram Prem.

89. The Legal Phrase Book for Shorthand writers, and Rapid Methods in Recording
Numerical by P.G. Subramania Iyer.

PART-V
(For the library of District and Sessions Courts in addition to works in Parts I to IV)

I. Dr. Naud Lal’s Penal Law in India.

2. Indian Divorce Act (Rattigan) or the Law and Practice of Divorce by S.C. Manchanda.

3. Haydon on Divorce.

4. House owners and Tenants in Cantonments (Lincoln).

5. Law of Compulsory Land Acquisition and Compensation or Ghosh’s Land Acquisition
Acts.

6. Ahandbook of the Law relating to Press in India, by G.K. Roy.

7. Punjab Court of Wards Manual (D.R. Prem).


--- Page 760 ---
High Court Rules and Orders — Vol. IV 231
—
8. Law of Torts, by Salmond, Clark and Lindsell, Iyr, Underhill or Ratan Lal.
9. Smith’s leading Cases.
10. White and Tudor’s Leading Cases on Equity.
11. The Shorter Oxford English Dictionary.
12. Wills on Circumstantial Evidence (Indian, edited by Krishnamachariar).
13. Law and Practice of Elections and Election Petitions Pandit Nanak Chand and others.
14. Election Cases - India and Burma - 1920-1935, by Hammond.
15. Law relating to places of entertainment and amusement (K. Venkoba Rao).
16. Kerry's India Sale of Goods Act.
17. Kerry’s Partnership Act.
18. Encyclopaedia of the General Acts and Codes of India, published by Butterworth and
Co. India Ltd.).
19. Law of Identification (M.K.A. Khan).
20. Law of Homicide and Hurt in British India (Rust).
21. Law of Confessions (Roy or M.K.A. Khan).
22. The Payment of Wages Act (H.L. Sarin)
PART-VI
(For the library of District Magistrates in each District within the limits of which Military forces
are stationed and for the library of each Cantonment Magistrate)
1. Army Regulations India, Volume 2 Discipline.
2. Amy Act.
3. Anauthorized work on Military Law.
4. House Owners and Tenants in Cantonments by Lincoln.
PART-VII
(For the libraries of District Magistrates only)
I. Law and Practice of Elections and Election Petitions by Pandit Nanak Chand.
2. Election Cases India and Burma 1920-1935, by Hammound.
3. Law relating to places of entertainment and amusement (K. Venkoba Rao).
4. Law of Identification (M.K.A. Khan).
5. Law of Homicide and Hurt in British India (Rust).
6. Law of Confessions (Roy or MK A. Khan).


--- Page 761 ---
232 High Court Rules and Orders — Vol. IV
————
CHAPTER — 19
CORRESPONDENCE
PART A — GENERAL DIRECTIONS

1. Correspondents with High Court.—All communications to and correspondence with
the High Court should be in English, and should be addressed to the Registrar of the Lahore High
Court, Lahore.

2. Correspondence with High Court.—The orders contained in Punjab Government
Consolidated Circular No. 5 regarding the routine and procedure to be observed in the submission
of correspondence, should be carefully observed by all officers of Judicial Department. The
directions relating to correspondence with the Punjab Civil Secretariat are to be followed, mutatis
mutandis, in corresponding with the High Court. Judicial Officers are not allowed to correspond
direct with the Judges on matters affecting leave, transfer, etc., or other such official questions.

3. Letters.—(a) Every letter should have at the commencement its number, the name
(when possible) as well as the office of both the writer and the officer addressed, and the place
from which it is written, and its date. This rule applies as well to copies as to original documents.

(b) Every letter should refer to the last preceding letter, if any, on the subject and also give,
either as a heading or on the margin, a brief description of the subject; the subject in respect of a
judicial case pertaining to the Court which is being addressed, will be the title of the case (i.e., the
class, number and year of the case and the parties’ names). This will also be done when reminders
are issued to facilitate the quick tracing of cases.

4. Margins, size and filing.—Correspondence should ordinarily be conducted on the 3/4
‘margin system. The docket size should ordinarily be used. For the filing of correspondence the flat
fille system will be found to be the most convenient (the size of a half-sheet of footscap).

5. Loss or damage.—A report should be made to the High Court through the District and
Sessions Judge whenever any judicial record or file or correspondence is found to have been
seriously demanded, tampered with, destroyed, lost or mislaid. Every effort should be made to
replace missing or damaged papers from all available sources.

6. Challan—(i) When several papers or records are transmitted under one cover, a list or
invoice (challan) in duplicate, should accompany the parcel. In the case of judicial records each of
which has an index to the papers contained in it, the files only need be entered in the challan but in
this challan the No. and date of the requisition and the class and No. of the case to the Court by
which each record is requisitioned, must be given for the convenience of that Court which may not
otherwise know the purpose for which the records have been transmitted.

(ii) Verification of challan.—The receiving officer should, on receipt, verify the list or
invoice with the papers received, and return on copy thereof after entering the date of receipt there
on and signing it. If any paper or record entered in the list of invoice has not come to hand, the fact
should be noted on each copy of the list or invoice and the dispatching office informed of the fact
by letter also, as soon as possible.

(iii) Checking of judicial records received with challan.—In the case of judicial records
the receiving officer will, after despatching a copy of the list or invoice, subject each record to
examination to order to satisfy himself that the papers thereon correspond with those entered in the
index; that the papers are not in a seriously damaged state; and that the Court-fees are complete
and in good condition. If any document or Court-fee is missing or damaged, or appears to have
been tampered with, intimation of the fact should be sent, as soon as possible, to the office of
dispatch. Unless objection is taken within one week of receipt, responsibility will ordinarily be
taken to have been transferred to the receiving office. [See also Chapter 16, “Records,” Part B,
regarding the transmission of Judicial Records.]

7. Destruction of Correspondence.—The destruction of judicial records is governed by


--- Page 762 ---
High Court Rules and Orders — Vol. IV 233
————
the rules in that behalf contained in Chapter 16 “Records”, Part F. As regards ordinary official
correspondence, routine, and ephemeral correspondence may be destroyed after one year, under
the supervision of the head of the office, a note in red ink (under the signature of the head of the
office) being made of the fact in the column of remarks of the register.

8. High Court Circulars and correction slips to Rules and Orders.—All High Court
Circulars should be placed, as received, on a file. All correction slips relating to the Rules and
Orders should be duly noted and the Volumes kept up-to-date.

9. Correspondence with Indian States and places abroad.—Special directions
regarding judicial communications intended for Indian States abroad will be found in High Court
Rules and Orders, Volume 1, Chapter 10, Volume III, Chapter 9-C, and Vol. IV, Chapters 7-F,
8-C, and 15.

10. Precepts of High Court.—Further instructions regarding compliance with the precepts
of the High Court will be found in Chapter 20.

11. Other references.—Instructions regarding the submission of building references will
be found in Chapter 22, “Judicial Buildings”, and with regard to submission of the annual budget
in Chapter 21, ‘Budget’. Attention is also drawn to Chapter 8-C, paragraphs 7 and 8, Chapter 7-C,
paragraph 4 and Chapter 7-E, paragraph 8 on the subject of correspondence.

12. All letters received from mercantile bodies, firms, private individuals, etc., not under
Government, should be replied to unless they are in reply to communications from the Court or
office itself and call for no further action. If there is likely to be any delay in disposing of such
letters, an ad interim acknowledgement should be sent as soon as possible. The acknowledgement
should ordinarily issue in the form below.

I am directed/have the honour to acknowledge the receipt of your letter
No. dated the
A reply will follow.

(Punjab Government Letter No. 3937-P.G.P. 41/58974, dated 12th November, 1941).
PART B - VERNACULAR CORRESPONDENCE CONNECTED WITH JUDICIAL
MATTERS

1. ‘When correspondence in vernacular advisable.—The rule regarding correspondence
being ordinarily conducted in English is not intended to require the use of the English language
when the vernacular language is obviously the most expeditious and convenient vehicle of
communication.

2. ‘When correspondence in vernacular advisable.—For instance, if a Judicial Officer
requires further information on some subject from an Pakistan subordinate of an adjoining district,
he should so word and engross his enquiry in the Vernacular that the same sheet of paper which he
sends may be forwarded to such subordinate, through the agency of, but without troubling, the
Deputy Commissioner of District Judge of that District; and be returned, in the same way, with the
information endorsed on it, but leaving no trace of itself but the receipt in the latter desptach book.

3. Correspondence regarding arrest and transmission of offenders.—Similarly,
whenever offenders have to be arrested or transmitted, a vernacular paper is the most convenient
medium, so that there may be no mistake in the name and residence of the party but the same
paper which is sent will be received back with the proper endorsement.

4. Public notices and proclamations.—In like manner, when offenders have to be
proclaimed or public notice given of any fact, the proclamations for notices should be prayed by
the officer who has occasion for them in the jail press or elsewhere; he should use a proper
selection in determining the places where the notices are to be published, and will then forward
them by a vernacular docket to District Officers, Officers -in charge of Sub-Divisions or
Tehsildars, as the case may be, taking care not to entail on the office receiving the notice any more


--- Page 763 ---
234 High Court Rules and Orders — Vol. IV
————
trouble than is involved in executing the order, and in endorsing the fact on the docket, and
returning it.

5. English figures—English figures alone shall be used in all official papers prepared
and registers maintained in the Judicial Department, except in the case of vernacular summonses
of notices, or in the vernacular judgments of judicial Officers, or in vernacular translations of
English judgments.

6. Judicial orders and processes: Signatures and addresses of the officers.—Judicial
Officers are reminded that, as a rule, every order passed by them, and every process issued from
their Courts under their signatures, should be signed in fill, with the name of their office, or the
capacity in which they act, whether as Judge, Magistrate, Deputy Commissioner, etc. The practice
adopted by many officers of endorsing important orders and issuing robkars with only the initial
letters of their names and three often illegible, causes much inconvenience and it should be
avoided.

71. Vernacular correspondence between officers of different ranks.—Vernacular
correspondence between an officer of superior rank and an officer of lower rank shall be
conducted by par vana on the part of the former and by arzi on that of the latter, but the latter
should be addressed as a and not as turn. A Tehsildar or other officer of superior rank,
corresponding with an officer of equal rank with himself, will make use of the robkari form.

PART C — THE USE OF RUBBER STAMPS FOR SIGNATURES IN OFFICIAL
CORRESPONDENCE

1. Rubber stamps for signatures not allowed.—The Honourable Judges have observed
the use by a certain District and Sessions Judge of a rubber stamp in place of signature in
correspondence addressed to this office.

2. Rubber stamps for signatures not allowed.—The procedure in official
correspondence, even in matters of a routine nature, is objectionable for obvious reasons. Full
signatures should always be affixed by the forwarding officer to all correspondence addressed to
this Court.

3. When letters may be signed by an official.—Should it not be possible for the
forwarding officer to sign all letters, they should be signed for him by some responsible official.


--- Page 764 ---
High Court Rules and Orders — Vol. IV 235
————
CHAPTER — 20
COMPLIANCE WITH THE HIGH COURT PRECEPTS

All precepts issuing from the High Court are in English.

1. Language of precept.—The process of order enclosed within the precept for service or
compliance is, in cases in which the parties are Pakistanis issued in the Vernacular.

2. Language of endorsement of return.—If in any case it is found inconvenience to
make the endorsement of return of a precept in English, there is no objection to its being made in
the Vernacular. In most cases, however, no difficulty should be found in making the return to the
precept in English. The endorsement on the process or order of service or compliance (as the case
‘may be) may be made in Vernacular.

3. Precept to be treated urgent.—Extreme inconvenience is caused by the failure on the
part of lower Courts to attend promptly to High Court precepts, and orders should be issued to
prevent such precepts from being lost sight of or treated in a leisurely or routine fashion. In
criminal cases precepts are invariably urgent matters.

4. Papers sent to be entered in Despatch Register.—A Despatch Register should be
maintained in each subordinate Court, showing records and other papers dispatched (on
requisition) to the High Court. The number and year of the case noted in the precept of the Court
should be entered in the Register, and the number in the Register should be noted on the reverse of
the precept, with the date of dispatch of the records.

5. Despatch of connected records.—It occasionally happens that in transmitting records
all connected records are not submitted. In order to ensure the dispatch of all the necessary records
and papers, the Reader of every original Court should be required to attach a list of connected
records to each original record, this list being initialed by the Reader. When a case is called for,
the Record-keeper will then be able to decide at once what records it is necessary to dispatch. The
Record-keeper should be held responsible that no record of a decided case is received in his office
without the list of connected records being attached, and that when a case is called for by an
Appellate Court all such records are desptached.

6. Checking of records received from High Court.—Intimation should be given direct
to the Registrar, within one month of the receipt of records returned from the High Court, if, in
any record, any papers, stamps or Court-fees are found to be missing, damaged or incomplete,
otherwise than as noted on the “State of Record Sheet” transmitted with the records. Unless such
intimation is given in due time the office of the High Curt will not be held responsible.

71. Transmission of records of High Court.—In transmitting records to the High Court,
the instructions regarding the preparation of an index and the transmission of records should be
carefully complied with, and the list of the records should be submitted in duplicate. An indication
must be given in the list of the No. and date of the requisition and of the class and No. of the case
in the High Court and which the records are transmitted. On receipt of the records in the High
Court the Superintendent of the Judicial Branch will fill in columns 10 and 11, and return the
duplicate copy of the office of the dispatch. When the records are returned by the High Court, the
receiving office will fill in columns 15 and 14 in the original list, and will return it for record as an
acknowledgment.

8. Packing of records sent.—Records dispatched to the High Court should be packed in
an inner cover of paper tied across with tape and secured in an outer cover of course cloth. During
the rainy season wax-cloth should, if possible, be used for the outer covering. All parcels should
be securely closed and sealed.

9. Despatch of connected records.—Before records are dispatched in civil or criminal
cases they should be carefully examined the challan, and all the records of connected cases to
which reference is made in the judgments of the Original Appellate Courts should also be sent up,
as well as any special records and papers called for. In criminal cases care should be taken to see


--- Page 765 ---
236 High Court Rules and Orders — Vol. IV
————
that the Police reports (first and intermediate) accompany the records.

10. Extract from Settlement records to be sent.—Where an extract from the settlement
records is not with the records it should be prepared and put up before. dispatch.

11. Requisition for records should be promptly complied with.—Requisitions for
records must be complied with within a week of the receipt of the precept or docket calling for
them, except where compliance is desired by return of post. It there is likely to be delay in
forwarding a record, or a record is still requires by a lower Court, the fact should be intimated at
once and the probable date of dispatch of the record given.

12. High Court notices to the promptly served.—Notices issued by the High Court in
civil and criminal cases should be served and returned with promptitude.


--- Page 766 ---
High Court Rules and Orders — Vol. IV 237
————
CHAPTER - 21
BUDGET
PART A - GENERAL

1. Introductory.—The Punjab Budget Manual contains detailed instructions in regard to
all matters concerning the preparation of budget estimates. This manual should be consulted
whenever any question regarding the budget arises. The instructions given below are intended only
for a brief summary of the principal points to be borne in mind by judicial officers in dealing with
expenditure.

2. Sanction and budget provision necessary for expenditure.—The mere fact that
budget provision exists is no authority for incurring expenditure. Sanction of competent authority
must in all cases be obtained before any expenditure is incurred; and the sanctioning authority
‘must ascertain whether budget provision exists before according sanction.

3. Heads of departments, controlling and disbursing authorities.—For the purposes of
these rules the Head of the Department, Controlling Officer, and Disbursing Officer for each
‘major or minor head of accounts concerning the Judicial Department shall be the authority named
in the following statement:

Major Heads Minor heads Disbursing Officer | Controlling officer Head of

including group including sub- Department
heads thereunder | heads there-under
27-Adminis- "A-High Court Registrar, High | Registrar, High | Chief justice of
tration of Justice Court Court the High Court
E-Civil and
Session Courts
(1) District and | District and | District and | Chief Justice of
Session Judges Session Judges Sessions Judges the High Court
(2) Subordinate Senior Subordinate | District and | Chief Justice of
Judges Judges Sessions Judges the High Court
(3) Process-serving | District and | District and | Chief Justice of
Establishment — | Sessions Judges Sessions Judge the High Court
District and
Sessions Judges’
Courts.
(4) process-serving | Senior Subordinate | District and | Chief justice of
establishment ~~ — | judges Session judges the High Court
sub-Judges’ Courts
(5) Circuit and | District and | District and | Chief justice of
Sessions Houses. | Sessions Judges Sessions Judges the High Court
F-Courts of Small | Judges of Small | District and | Chief Justice of
Causes Cause Sessions Judges the High Court
G-Criminal Courts | Deputy District and | Chief Justice of
Commissioners Sessions Judges the High Court.

4. Responsibility for the preparation of the statements of estimated revenue and
expenditure, as well as for applications for supplementary grants, or demands for excess grants lies
with the controlling and disbursing officers shown above.


--- Page 767 ---
238 High Court Rules and Orders — Vol. IV
————
PART B — PREPARATION OF BUDGET ESTIMATES AND SCHEDULES OF NEW
EXPENDITURE

1. Estimates—All demands for supply in the ensuing year must be entered in one of the
following estimates:--

(1) Estimates of ordinary charges.

(2) Schedule of New Expenditure.

(3) Supplementary Schedule of New Expenditure.

(4) List of Major and Minor Works.

The list of Major and Minor Works is dealt with in Chapter 22-A.

2. Budget Forms.—Budget forms are supplied direct to District and Sessions Judges and
Deputy Commissioners by the Finance Department. On their receipt, these officers should take
immediate steps to collect the necessary material for compilation of the estimates. If forms are not
received in time, copies should be typed from the specimens in the Budget Manual.

3. Date of submission of estimates.—The date for submission of the estimates are
printed at the top of the budget forms, and are also given in Appendix D of the Budget Manual.
Controlling and disbursing officers are responsible for seeing that estimates are submitted
punctually on the date fixed.

4. Classification of items of the estimate.—There is room for considerable
misconception in the matter of distinguishing items which should appear in the estimates of
ordinary expenditure and in the Schedule of New Expenditure, and particular care is necessary in
this respect. The principle which should guide officers in deciding whether expenditure of a
particular kind is to be included in the estimates of ordinary expenditure or in the Schedule of New
Expenditure is laid down in detail in paragraphs 5.1, 5.4, 7.1 of the Budget Manual. The Schedule
should be drawn up in Form B.M. 16.

5. Estimates of ordinary expenditure.—Particular attention is drawn to the following
points in connection with the estimates of ordinary expenditure:--

Pay of Officers and Establishment

(i) Provision should be made with reference to the pay done on April 1 and increment
which may be due during the year.

(ii) The estimate should be supported by a nominal roll, prepared separately for Gazetted
and non-gazetted officers, showing the pay to be drawn by each officer during the year
for which the estimate is made.

(ili) The number of posts should be carefully checked. Any variations in the number of
posts or pay should be explained, a reference being given to the orders of Government,
if any.

(iv) Permanent and temporary establishment should be shown separately.

(v) Special care should be taken to show voted and charged expenditure separately.

Miscellaneous expenditure

(vi) All variations must be clearly explained in a separate note.

(vii) For fluctuating expenditure, the modified grant and last year’s actuals should be taken
as a guide, regard being had to any extraordinary expenditure had or anticipated.

(viii) No chance may be made in the contract contingent grants without the previous sanction
of Government.


--- Page 768 ---
High Court Rules and Orders — Vol. IV 239
————
(ix) With the estimates or ordinary expenditure estimates should be submitted for:--
(a) Rewards for examinations in Oriental languages.
(b) Official publications, the cost of which is adjusted on the books of the
Accountant-General, and not paid in cash.
These estimates should be submitted in accordance with paragraphs 5.18 and 5.14 of
the Budget Manual.
(x) Under the head “Other Contingencies” provision should be made for the cost of:--
(a) Survey maps.
(b) Bicycles.
(6) Law books (including official publications) paid for in cash.

6. Schedule of New Expenditure.—For any item which it is proposed to include in the
Schedule of New Expenditure, Administrative approval must be obtained in good time before the
Schedule is submitted.

Any item not supported by administrative approval (which should be clearly quoted)
will be automatically cut out.

71. Other estimates.—In addition to the estimates mentioned in paragraph 5 above, the
following statements are also required:-

(1) Forecast of stores likely to be purchased through the High Court Commissioner in

England.

(2) Estimates of leave and deputation allowances to be drawn from the Home Treasury.

(3) Stationary to be purchased from the Provincial Stationary Office, Punjab, Lahore.

(4) Estimates of advances payable to Government servants, e.g, Home building,

Conveyance and Purchase of typewriters.
(5) Estimates of superannuation allowances, pensions, and commuted value of pensions.
Provision should be made for all articles of Stationary which are obtainable from
Lahore, so as to reduce local purchases of such articles to a minimum. Local purchases, due to a
failure to make proper budget provision are frequently brought to light during audit.

8. Instructions should be strictly followed.—Although the personal attention of District
and Sessions Judges has been drawn to the necessity of complying with these instructions the
Judges regret to notice that the estimates received continue to exhibit the same defects as before.
The only conclusion to be drawn is that little or no trouble is taken to read and understand these
instructions.

9. Importance of punctual submission of correct estimates.—Owing to the submission
of estimates to the Legislative Assembly on a fixed date, a great burden is thrown upon the
Finance Department of the Provincial Government in collecting and co-ordinating estimates
received from all departments throughout the province within a time which is comparatively short
for the work involved. The late submission of a single return relating to one head delays
consideration of all the other returns which may have been received in time. Incorrect
classification makes submission of the estimates in the form required by Assembly impossible;
and when errors cannot be corrected at headquarters, the result is a final estimate which may lead
to a reduced allotment of funds.

10. Common errors.—The Honourable Judges trust that District and Sessions Judges will
bear these considerations in mind, and after making a note of the dates on which the various
estimates are due, they will themselves personally insist on the preparation of estimates by their


--- Page 769 ---
240 High Court Rules and Orders — Vol. IV
————
office before these dates. Among errors which are most frequently noticed are the failure to
distinguish between voted and charged expenditure, the failure to submit the names and
designations of officers, and the lack of explanations for variations in expenditure proposed
compared with the modified grants for previous years. These are the principal omissions, but there
are many others of the same kind which occur. Punishment has already been awarded to Clerks of
Courts and other ministerial officers responsible for delays, errors and omissions. It is, however,
necessary to repeat that disciplinary action will again be taken if serious irregularities continue to
occur.
PART C — APPROPRIATIONS AND RE-APPROPRIATIONS

1. Primary units of appropriation.—When a grant has been voted by the Legislative
Assembly, the amount voted, together with any sum assigned to the same major head and heads of
account which does not require the vote of the Assembly, is communicated to the High Court by
the Finance Department in the shape of lump sum allotted under minor and sub-heads of account
distributed under one or more of the following heads:---

Primary Units of Appropriation

1. Pay of Officers.

2. Pay of Establishments.

3. Travelling allowances.

4. Other allowances and honoraria.

5. Contingencies.

6. Grants-in-aid, Contributions and Donations.

7. Works.

8. Assignments and compensations.

9. Establishment charges paid to other Governments, Departments etc.

10. Reserve.

11. Suspense.

2. Appropriation of the supply.—Out of the supply allotted in each primary unit of
appropriation, the High Court, and any officer to whom it has distributed supply, has full power to
appropriate sums to meet expenditure failing under that unit, provided that:-

(a) supply provided for charged items of expenditure must not be appropriated to votable
items, and without the previous consent of the Finance Department, supply provided for
voted items must not be appropriated to charged items;

(b) supply must not be appropriated to any item of expenditure which has not been
sanctioned by an authority competent to sanction it;

(c) supply shall be appropriated only to objects for which the grant is sanctioned;

(d) no expenditure shall be incurred without previous approval of competent authority on
objects the demands for which have been specifically refused or the provision for which
has been specifically reduced either by the legislature or by the Government;

(e) supply shall not be appropriated towards expenditure which should be met from a
contract contingent beyond the amount specified in the grant.

3. Re-appropriation.—No re-appropriation can be sanctioned by Controlling or


--- Page 770 ---
High Court Rules and Orders — Vol. IV 241
————
Disbursing Officers, except from one secondary unit to another secondary unit subordinate to the
same primary unit.

4. Re-appropriation.—Other re-appropriations require the sanction of the High Court,
and are subject to the same rules as those set out in paragraph 2 above.

5. Application for additional appropriation.—Applications for additional
appropriations shall be prepared in Form B.M. 33 and shall set forth the particular primary unit of
appropriation, the provision for which has been exceeded or is likely to be exceeded.

6. Reasons.—The reasons for the insufficiency of the appropriation and remarks
regarding re-appropriations should be given in the form by the Disbursing Officer, and also, if
necessary, by the Controlling Officer, and the Head of the Department. No separate re-
appropriation statement or covering letter is required.

71. Additional appropriation already sanctioned should be mentioned.—If the amount
shown in column 2 includes any additional appropriation already sanctioned during the year, the
number and date of the order sanctioning it should be quoted.

8. Submission of the application.—The application will be numbered and dated by the
Disbursing Officer, and subject to paragraph 11 below, forwarded through the Controlling Officer
to the High Court.

9. Duty of forwarding authority.—The officer forwarding the application should
endeavour to suggest a source of re-appropriation; and if he is competent to sanction it himself he
should do so, instead of forwarding the application.

10. Prompt submission of the application.—All applications for additional appropriations
must be submitted by the Disbursing Officer as soon as the necessity can be foreseen and should
not be postponed.

11. Additions to contract contingent grants.—In the case of applications for additions to
contract contingent grants for the current year only, the Disbursing Officer should report the
savings, if any, from his grant for the previous financial year.

PART D — CONTROL AND DISTRIBUTION OF GRANTS

1. Communication of grant to the High Court.—As soon as the Legislative Assembly
has voted a grant, the Finance Department communicates to the High Court the amount so voted,
together with any sum assigned to the same major head or heads of accounts which does not
require the vote of the Assembly. The amounts are communicated in the shape of lamp sums
allotted under minor and sub-heads of account and distributed over such of the prescribed primary
units of appropriation as may be necessary. Such grants are communicated not later than the 15th
April in each year.

2. Grants for pay of officers and establishment.—Grants under the primary units of
appropriation “Pay of Officers” and “Pay of Establishment” which represents the cost of
permanently sanctioned posts borne on Provincial Scales, are regarded as supply distributed by the
Finance Department, and are not distributed.

3. Distribution by High Court.—The High Court, out of the supply allotted to it,
distributes among the Controlling and Disbursing Officers concerned in such manner as may
appear suitable:

(a) any portion of the grants for the primary unit “Travelling Allowance”.

(b) any portion of the grant under the primary unit “Contingencies” other than sanctioned

contract grants.

(c) any portion of the grant under the primary units “Other Allowances and Honoraria”,


--- Page 771 ---
242 High Court Rules and Orders — Vol. IV
————

Works “Works”, “Contributions”, “Suspense” or “Reserves” as is not excluded from

distribution. (See paragraphs 10.5 and 10.6 of the Punjab Budget Manual).

4. Reserve—The High Court may in carrying out such distribution retain a portion of the
grant as a reserve in its own hands. The distribution is carried out not later than the 15th May in
cach year.

5. General control of High Court.—The High Court exercises general control over the
actual expenditure incurred against grants communicated to Controlling and Disbursing Officers.
Article 55 of the Audit Code lays down that the authority administering a grant and not the Audit
Department is ultimately responsible for keeping expenditure within the grant. For this purpose
‘monthly statements are prepared and forwarded to the Accountant-General for reconciliation. Both
the Head of the Department and the Accountant-General are responsible for reconciling
differences and correcting misclassifications.

The High Court may issue such instructions to the Controlling and Disbursing Officers
in this matter as may appear necessary for carrying out the duty of control.

Should the grant under any minor and appear likely to be exceeded, the High Court will
arrange for the excess being provided by a re-appropriation or, if necessary, for the submission of
a supplementary demand.

6. Duty of controlling officer to prevent expenditure beyond grant.—The controlling
Officer is primarily responsible for watching the progress of expenditure against grants allotted to
him under each primary unit of appreciation concerned and for taking necessary steps to prevent
expenditure in excess of grant:

(a) by transfer from one Disbursing Officer to another under the powers of appropriation

within the primary unit of appropriation.

(b) by exercise of his delegated powers of re-appropriation.

(c) by application for an excess rant under the prescribed rules as soon as the necessity

arises for this course.

The Accountant-General will on request supply him with the same information as to
progress of actual as is given to the High Court, and he may call for returns from Disbursing
Officer.

71. Duty of Disbursing Officer.—The Disbursing Officer is the officer directly
responsible for the expenditure incurred against the grant allotted to him under each primary unit
of appropriation. He shall keep a close watch over the progress of expenditure, and in no case
should he allow the appropriation for any unit to be exceeded without obtaining the approval of
competent authority. He shall pay prompt attention to any warnings received from the Accountant-
General and arrange to submit an application for an additional appropriation as soon as the
necessity arises.

8. Money to be spent only on the objects for which sanctioned.—The Disbursing
Officer is required to utilize the appropriations placed in his disposal only towards expenditure on
the objects for which the grants are sanctioned and, in particular, no expenditure should be
incurred without previous approval of competent authority on objects the demands for which have
been specifically refused either by the legislature or by the Provincial Government.

9. Duty of Audit Officer—The duty of the audit officer is to keep a close watch over
orders of appropriation and re-appropriation and to pay attention to the progress of expenditure
against (1) the grant as a whole, (20 the appropriations for primary units. The Accountant-General
will report to the head of the Department any excesses likely over the grant as a whole.


--- Page 772 ---
High Court Rules and Orders — Vol. IV 243
————
CHAPTER - 22
JUDICIAL BUILDINGS
PART A - SUBMISSION OF PROPOSALS AND ESTIMATES

1. ‘What are judicial buildings.—These instructions relate to buildings which are purely
judicial, and not judicial and General Administration jointly. The latter (e.g., the district Kutchery)
are dealt with under the orders of the Financial Commissioners under paragraph 20.13 of the Book
of Financial Powers. All buildings of which the Deputy Commissioner is in charge are “General
Administration” buildings. Purely “Judicial” buildings include District and Sessions Judges’
Courts, Sessions Houses, Court of Small Causes and Subordinate Judges’ Courts and all
subsidiary buildings attached to them — vide serial No. 6 of paragraph 20.13 of the Book of
Financial Powers. Buildings which are both Judicial and General Administration, that is,
buildings, which are used for both purposes and are not exclusively applied to judicial purposes
(e.g., Sub-Judge’s Court located in a Tehsil building), and buildings subsidiary to them will or
purposes of additions and alterations, be dealt with by the department requiring the larger amount
of accommodation, viz., the High Court, through the District and Sessions Judge, or the Financial
Commissioners through the Deputy Commissioner, as the case may be.

2. Bar Rooms and Waiting rooms.—As regards Bar Rooms, that is, accommodation
specially provided by the Provincial Government for the convenience of Legal Practitioners, the
Punjab Government have decided that Bar Rooms, which are detached buildings, even though
they may be situated in the compounds of a Tehsil or a Commissioner’s office, etc., shall be
classified as Judicial buildings under the control and management of the High Court. A Bar Room
which forms part of another building shall be classified in accordance with the classification of
that building. Bar Rooms at the headquarters of districts and at outlying stations where there are
more Courts than one will be of two classes according to standard plans which have been
approved by the Punjab Government and are kept by the Public Works Department, viz, class A
for stations where there are more than fifty lawyers, and class B where there are fifty or less. It is
intended that Bar Rooms of this description should be situated in a central position within
reasonable distance and roughly equidistant from the civil, criminal and revenue Courts. When the
Sessions Court is at some distance from the main Kutchery, a separate waiting room and bath
room should be provided in the former, and similarly, in the rare cases where any one subordinate
Court or block of Courts is far distant from the remainder similar provision should be made. These
‘waiting rooms will be under the entire control concerned and will ordinarily be open to respectable
litigants as well as to members of the Bar. It should be understood that Bar Rooms and Waiting
Rooms so provided will be open only to the members of the recognized local bar associations.

3. References.—Local officers will be guided by Chapters II and III of the Public
Department Code (1st edition), and Chapter 8 and Appendix B of the Punjab Budget Manual in
the matter of all definitions and proposals relating to works.

4. Procedure to be adopted whenever a work is to be proposed.—Whenever the
necessity for a work other than a petty work, becomes apparent the District and Sessions Judge,
before calling upon the Public Works Department to prepare rough plans and estimates for any
work, should first of all obtain the consent of the High Court to taking up the scheme. If the
Judges are of the opinion that the scheme for any reason is not likely to mature in the near future,
they will veto it at this stage. Consent to proceed having been obtained, the nexemove of the local
officer should be to prepare, in tabular form, a statement of accommodation required, and to
convey, in a brief note, any remarks he may wish to make about special features and design, and
whether cheapness, appearance or finish is a primary consideration. The requirements should be
formulated as concisely as possible, e.g., so many rooms for accommodating so many officers of a
certain standing or records of a certain quantity or other details which the Public Works
Department might require to know; but all details which might unnecessarily tie the hands of the
Public Works Department should be excluded, e.g., if it is stated that a room for two junior clerks
is among the requirements, it need not be stated what its area or dimensions should be. At this
stage the Executive Engineer or the Superintending Engineer should be consulted personally and


--- Page 773 ---
244 High Court Rules and Orders — Vol. IV

—-—
orally by the local officer himself if the latter has any difficulty in framing his list of requirements,
but the system of deputing a subordinate to consult a Public Works Department subordinate
should be rigorously avoided. The local officer should then submit his list of requirements to the
Executive Engineer according to paragraph 2.10 of the Public Works Department Code; a rough
estimate and pencil plan (unless a standard plan exists) will then be prepared by the Public Works
Department after which the District and Sessions Judge will take steps to obtain the necessary
administrative approval.

5. Submission of proposal to obtain High Court’s sanction.—In applying to the High
Court for administrative approval, the District and Sessions Judge will see that all proposals for
new buildings, etc., are not submitted in a form which fails to explain clearly either the nature of
the proposals or the reasons for making them. All proposals should, therefore, be submitted with a
self-contained letter describing the nature and extent of the requirement with such plans and maps
as may be required to understand them. The High Court should not be left to extricate the details
from the plans and estimates supplied by the Public Works Department. When proposals are
submitted relating to different Courts, these should be dealt with in separate letters whenever this
can be conveniently done. It is sometimes necessary to refer to a scheme relating to several Courts
as a whole, but the aim should be to keep works relating to different Courts distinct, and it should
be borne in mind that when several proposals are submitted together each of them is likely to be
delayed by this course.

6. Limits of High Court’s power to sanction.—Certain powers to accord administrative
approval have been delegated to the Judges of the High Court, viz.:--

(a) works relating to judicial buildings other than residential buildings to the extent of Rs.

10,000/- (that is, Minor Works), - vide serial No. 6 of paragraph 20.13 of the Book of

Financial powers;

(b) estimates of capital expenditure on the construction or purchase of residences for

Government servants of the Judicial Department to the extent of Rs. 2,000, —vide serial

No. 23 of paragraph 2.13 of the Book of Financial Powers.

Power to accord administrative approval in excess of the limits mentioned in (a) and (b)
above vests with the Provincial Government. Works under (a) above in excess of Rs. 10,000 are
termed “Major Works” and those upto that limit “Minor Works”.

In the case of alterations of existing residential buildings, the power to accord
administrative approval vests with:

(1) The Superintending Engineer in the Public Works Department circle concerned upto a

limit of Rs. 200;

(2) The Chief Engineer, Public Works Department, up to a limit of Rs. 2,000; and

(3) the Provincial Government beyond Rs. 2,000.
vide paragraph 20.13 of the Book of Financial Powers.

71. Date of submission of project.—Lists of Major Works and of Minor Works for the
whole of the Judicial Department are prepared annually in the High Court Officer and forwarded
to the Provincial Government in the Administrative Department not later than the 1st September in
each year. No work can be included in the list of Major Works unless it has first received the
administrative approval of the competent authority and such approval is operative within the
‘meaning of paragraph 18.16 of the Book of Financial Powers. The rules regulating the preparation
and submission of these lists are laid down in Chapter 8 of the Punjab Budget Manual.

A project for which funds are required in the following year must be forwarded to the
High Court in time for administrative approval to be obtained before the beginning of September.
As the preceding months are usually occupied by the High Court vacation, it is advisable to
forward the completed project for the orders of the Judges at least two or three weeks before the


--- Page 774 ---
High Court Rules and Orders — Vol. IV 245
————
vacation begins. Unless this is done, it will not ordinarily be possible to provide funds during the
following years unless (a) the work is a petty one the cost of which can be met from the reserve at
the disposal of the Judges for Minor Works or (b) it is of sufficient urgency to justify a demand for
a supplementary grant.

8. Allotment of funds for works.—Funds for Major Works when voted by the
Legislative Assembly are allotted by the Provincial Government to the Public Works Department
and that department then begins execution in respect of such works for which funds are assigned.
In the case of Minor Works, however, funds are placed at the disposal of the High Court under the
head “50 - Civil Works (Transferred) Voted - Original Works Buildings - (G) Administration of
Justice”, and the Judges then proceed to sheet the works for execution during the year, due regard
being paid to the relative urgency of projects and to the amount of funds available.

9. Intimation of administrative approved to P.W.D.—Intimation of all administrative
approvals to Minor Works will be give by the High Court, where the High Court accords such
approval, to the Superintending Engineer of the Public Works Department circle concerned to
whom also the plans and estimates will be forwarded for disposal under the rules of that
department. Funds will either be allotted simultaneously or at a subsequent date when they are
available. Such intimations will also be communicated to the District and Sessions Judge
concerned.

10. Registers of works approved.—In the High Court registers will be maintained of (a)
Major Works and (b) Minor Works in which all works will be entered as administrative approval
is accorded and the entries therein will be completed as each event occurs. The registers will
contain the following entries:--

(@) Major Works

(1) Annual serial number.

(2) High Court file number.

(3) Name of Work.

(4) Number and date of authority conveying administrative approval.

(5) Amount of administrative approval.

(6) Number and date of authority conveying technical sanction.

(7) Amount of technical sanction with cost of “Original Works” and “Repairs” shown

separately.

(8) Remarks, viz., budget in which provision was suggested and provided, dates of

commencement and completion of work, etc.
(b) Minor Works

(1) Annual serial number.

(2) High Court file number.

(3) Name of work.

(4) Number and date of authority conveying administrative approval.

(5) Amount of administrative approval with cost of “Original Works” and “Repairs” shown

separately.

(6) Remarks, viz., amount of fund allotted and date thereof.

A third register in the prescribed form will be maintained for the purpose of keeping a
running account of the allotment for Minor Works placed at the disposal of the Judges in each
year.


--- Page 775 ---
246 High Court Rules and Orders — Vol. IV
————
PART B - SESSIONS HOUSES

1. The following instructions have been issued by the Judges with regard to control over
Sessions Houses. (Letter No. 3863-G, dated the 5th June, 1928).

2. Management.—In accordance with Punjab Government Consolidated Circular No. 28,
the management of Sessions Houses is vested in the Sessions Judges concerned. Funds are
provided under the head “27—Administration of Justice—Civil and Sessions Courts---Circuit and
Sessions Houses” for which they are both the disbursing and the controlling officers, — vide
Appendix D in the Punjab Budget Manual, page 232.

3. District Judges are disbursing officers.—It has been brought to the notice of the
Honourable Judges that in certain districts the allotment placed at the disposal of the Sessions
Judges by this Court is, according to past practice, transferred to the Deputy Commissioners, who
incur expenditure therefrom on their own responsibility. This is perhaps due to misapprehension
of the revised rules. They are, therefore, pleased to direct that District and Sessions Judges should
in future keep the allotment in their own hands, if they so desire.

4. Use of Sessions Houses by other offences.—It should be made clear to all concerned
that, as laid down in the circular quoted, a Sessions House is primarily intended for the use of a
Sessions Judge as a Session Court for trial of sessions cases, and that it can also be used by the
Commissioner of the Division in which it is located, while on tour, without permission, provided
that officer first ascertains that it is not required by the Sessions Judge for the trial of cases. This
circular further directs that subject to the lien first of the Sessions Judge and then of the
Commissioner, Sessions Houses can also be used as Rest Houses, but subject further to the other
rules given in the circular.

5. Use of Sessions Houses by other officers.—Whenever a Commissioner requires the
use of a Sessions House as his residence while on tour, the correct procedure would be for the
Deputy Commissioner on his behalf or for the Commissioner direct to enquire whether cases have
been fixed or not. In one instance a Sessions Judge was asked to postpone the cases, if fixed, as
the Sessions House was required for the use of the Commissioner and in another case the same
request was made as it was wanted by another high officer, the excuse advance for his being that
Sessions Houses are shown in the list of Rest Houses and could, therefore, be used as such by
Government officers entitled to the use of Rest Houses. This view of the case is wrong. A Sessions
House can be used as a Rest House only if it is not first required by the Sessions Judge and then by
the Commissioner of the Division.

PART B — ANNUAL DISTRICT CIVIL AND CRIMINAL REPORTS

1. Statements to be prepared strictly according to instructions.—The Annual Civil
and Criminal Statements should be foot of the printed forms of each statement. To ensure this
being done, reporting officers should each year, on receiving the blank forms, have each note
carefully explained to the person whose duty it is to compile the statements, and again, before
dispatching the statements, satisfy themselves that all instructions as to compilation have been
properly observed.

2. Reports accompanying statements.—(i) The reports which accompany the statements
should be as concise as it consistent with the omission of nothing that really requires notice or
explanation, and should be written on half sheets of foolscap and on one side of the paper only.
Half sheets, with printed headings, will be supplied from the High Court Office. Where the subject
discussed requires more than one half sheet, other half sheets should be tacked on according to
requirements. Where a subject calls for no remarks, the half sheet with the printed heading should
still be inserted in its place, and enfaced with the word ‘no remarks.” The subject headings will
ordinarily be as shown in the Annexure I to this part.


--- Page 776 ---
High Court Rules and Orders — Vol. IV 247
————

(ii) The Annual District Civil and Criminal Reports should be limited to 15 pages, and the
Annual Reports of District and Sessions Judges on the work of their own Courts should be limited
in the case of Civil Report to 5 pages and in the case of the Criminal Report to 6 pages; and the
rest will be in marginal comments on the reports of District Magistrates.

3. Date of submission.—District Magistrates’ Criminal statements and reports should be
submitted to the Sessions Judge not later than the 1st February of each year, the office copies
being dispatched to the High Court at the same time. The Sessions statements should likewise be
despatched to the High Court not later than the 15th February, and the Sessions Judges’ report,
with the fair copies of the District reports and statements, should follow not later than the 15th
February.

4. Date of submission.—District Judges’ Civil statements and reports for their own and
Subordinate Courts should be submitted to the High Court not later than the 15th February of each
year.

PART C - COURT FURNITURE

1. Scale—The following scale has been prescribed by the Judges for furnishing of the
Courts of Subordinate Judges:--

Court Room

1. One writing table for Presiding Officer.

2. One table for Counsel.

3. One chair for Presiding Officer.

4. Six office chairs for Counsel.

5. Two office chairs for dais.

6. Matting.

7. Chicks, according to requirements.

8. Durrie for dais.

9. Bench for litigants.

Bath Room

1. Wash-hand stand, with crockery, consisting of bowl, jug, soapdish and brush dish.

2. Commode.

3. Chamber utensil.

Retiring Room

1. One table with cloth.

2. Two ordinary chairs

3. One arm chair.

4. One book case.

5. Arow of pegs.

6. One durrie.

7. A curtain on curtain (according to requirements).


--- Page 777 ---
248 High Court Rules and Orders — Vol. IV
————

2. List of furniture for each year.—A card must be placed on the wall of each
Subordinate Judge's Court, showing the number of articles supplied for the room. Inspecting
Officers must satisfy themselves that all articles are present at inspection; and in particular that
chairs, tables and durries are not allowed to wander into office rooms, retiring rooms and
residences.

3. Renewal of furniture.—The re-furnishing of Subordinate Judges’ Courts will be done
by District Judges out of their grants. The Presiding Officer of each Court is responsible for seeing
that all furniture is maintained in good condition, and he will apply to the District Judge for
renewal when required. If any article of furniture is broken or becomes useless, immediate steps
must be taken to mend it or replace it, if necessary. When any article is replaced, the old article
must be destroyed or sold. The storing of broken and useless chairs, etc., in godowns is absolutely
forbidden.


--- Page 778 ---
High Court Rules and Orders — Vol. IV 249
————
CHAPTER — 23
REPORTS AND RETURNS
PART A — GENERAL

1. Different kinds of returns.—There are four main classes of returns relating to Judicial
Work. These are:--

[6] The statements attached to the Annual Civil and Criminal District Reports, which are
combined into provincial statements for the purpose of making a yearly survey of the
judicial administration.

(ii) Periodical returns, usually monthly or quarterly, made to the High Court in order that
the Judges may keep a check on the progress of judicial business.

(ili) Periodical returns made by Subordinate Courts to the District and Sessions Judge or to
the District Magistrate for the same purpose.

(iv) Returns made to other departments, such as the Police, for their own uses.

2. References.—The purpose for which the returns are made should be clearly understood
by the officers by whom they are prepared and to whom they are submitted. Annual reports and
returns are dealt with in Part B of this chapter. Classes (ii) and (iii) are dealt with in Part C.
Instructions regarding information to be supplied to the police will be found in Part D.

3. References.—Appendix I to this Chapter gives a list of the reports and returns which
are to be submitted to the High Court, and the dates and which they are due. Appendix 11 gives a
list of returns for which blank forms will be supplied by the High Court with indent.

PART B — ANNUAL DISTRICT CIVIL AND CRIMINAL REPORTS

1. Statements to be prepared strictly according to instructions.—The Annual Civil
and Criminal Statements should be complied with strict attention to the explanatory notes at the
foot of the printed forms of each statement. To ensure this being done, reporting officers should
each year, on receiving the blank forms, have each note carefully explained to the person whose
duty it is compile the statements, and again, before dispatching the statements, satisfy themselves
that all instructions as to compilation have been properly observed.

2. Reports accompanying statements.—(i) The reports which accompany the statements
should be as concise as is consistent with the omission of nothing that really requires notice or
explanation, and should be written on half sheets of foolscap and on one side of the paper only.
Half sheets, with printed headings, will be supplied from the High Court Office. Where the subject
discussed requires more than one-half sheet, other half sheets should be tacked on according to
requirements. Where a subject calls for no remarks, the half sheet with the printed headings should
still be inserted in its place, and enfaced with the words ‘no remarks.” The subject headings will
ordinarily be as shown in the Annexure I to this part.

(ii) The Annual District Civil and Criminal Reports should be limited to 15 pages, and the
Annual Report of District and Sessions Judges on the work of their own Courts should be limited
in the case of the Civil Report to 5 pages and in the case of the Criminal Report to 6 pages; and the
rest will be in marginal comments on the reports of District Magistrates.

3. Date of submission.—District Magistrates’ Criminal statements and reports should be
submitted to the Sessions Judge not later than the 1st February of each year, the office copies
being desptached to the High Court at the same time. The Sessions statements should likewise be
dispatched to the High Court not later than the 15th February, and the Sessions Judges’ report,
with the fair copies of the District reports and statements, should follow not later than the 15th
February.

4. Date of submission.—District Judges’ Civil statements and reports for their own end


--- Page 779 ---
250 High Court Rules and Orders — Vol. IV
———
for Subordinate Courts should be submitted to the High Court not later than the 15th February of
cach year.

5. Scope of statements.—The statements of Judicial business required annually from the
Criminal and Civil Courts of the Punjab comprise:---

(a) Statements prescribed by Government — whether Central or Provincial;

(b) Statements prescribed by the High Court for submission by subordinate Court.

6. Provincial statements.—No special statements have been prescribed by the Provincial
Government, but the Provincial Statements submitted by the High Court with the Annual Notes on
Criminal and Civil Justice supply more detailed information under many heads than is required by
the Central Government, and have been framed so as to supply all information required by the
Provincial Government. Excluding sub-divisions of statements, there are six Criminal and eleven
Civil (including five relating to Sikh Gurdwaras Tribunal, five to the other Civil Courts and one to
Insolvency cases).

71. District Statements.—In order to obtain the information necessary for the Provincial
Judicial Statements and the Annual Reports, statements are prescribed for submission by District
and Sessions Courts. These are:--

10 Civil Judicial Statements.
6 Criminal Judicial Statements (Sessions Judge).
8 Criminal Judicial Statements (Courts subordinate to Sessions Judge).

8. Discrepancies between statements submitted by Police and District Magistrates.—
As serious discrepancies often exist between the annual returns submitted by District Magistrates
as to the state of crime in their districts, and the reports submitted by the local Police authorities,
the attention of all District Magistrates is called to the following points, with a view to the
prevention of such discrepancies in future:-—

(i) Inthe District returns, cases which have actually been pending since the previous year,

and shown as cases reported during the current year.

(ii) When a charge is made of one offence, but the accused person is actually convicted of
another offence, care is not always taken to note the change, with the result that the
returns of the Police and the District Magistrate are mutually inconsistent. Both should,
of course, return it as a case of the offence for which the accused stood convicted.

(ili) When the Police authorities send in cases for cancellation at the end of the year, just
before the Annual District and Police returns are due, in sometimes occurs that District
Magistrates continue to cancel cases after their own District reports have been
dispatched. The result is that d case figures as true in the District reports and as false in
the Police returns, which are delayed until every case sent up for cancellation has been
received back from the District Magistrate. District Magistrates should either insist on
all cases for cancellation being sent in to them in time to allow of the result being
incorporated in the District returns, or should decline to continue to cancel cases after
the dispatch of their own District report.

9. List.—A list of all the statements required will be found in Annexure II to this part. The

Provincial Statements are compiled in the High Court.

10.  Forms.—Forms of the statements will be found in Volume VI of the Rules and Orders

of the High Court.


--- Page 780 ---
High Court Rules and Orders — Vol. IV 251
————
ANNEXTURE I TO PART B
SUBJECT HEADINGS

:

H]

g . . Reference to Statements
[EEN
lodgmatsus |
2 | Clsifeatonofuis | — | Saemen Can) |
ll I

suits
HEE I a
duration and pending
cases
suits were disposed of
lA
IV (Part IT)
7 Breowfonofdeeress | | Stomens VIwnd VIl__|
© Caneel | |
Clana TL [Seen |
Cause Courts
I = il I
pending files
may be noticed.
HE =i] I
disposal
I til
defendant.
{OTS ES EE
| [EERE
parties of time and place of
hearing.
| EEE
investigations or to examine
accounts
HEX
preparation and delivery of
judgment.
HEE
procedure not included in the
above.
7 EE
Process-serving criminal processes issued.
Establishment Receipts and expenditure as
compared with previous years
B [Swevsenorowr| |


--- Page 781 ---
252 High Court Rules and Orders — Vol. IV
————
;
H]
g . . Reference to Statements
Work of subordinate
Courts
Td NofeofOffess || |
15 | Any subject
connected with the
Administration of
Civil Justice not
included in the above.
 [Oralduidicion | | |
1 General review of | Offences reported, struck off | Statement IT
offences committed | register upon application of the
and brought to trial. Police, and admitted and have
occurred.
YY
Proportion of offences brought to
trial to offences admitted to have
occurred.
2 Offences classified | Under these heads (viz., 2 3 and | Statement IT
under the Penal Code | 4) comment should be made, and,
if possible, explanation given of
the predominance, or the increase
or decrease of any special
offence, and of anything that
appears unusual in the disposal of
any special offence or class of
offences.
3 Offences classified —
Local and special
Laws
4 Offences classified — Statements III and VIII
miscellaneous
proceedings under the
Criminal Procedure
Code.
5 | General result of | Cases and persons of disposal and | Statement IV (Part I)
inquiries and trials disposed of, with details of
disposal cases pending and
duration cases.
Agency by which Statement IV (Part I)
Criminal work was
disposed of
7 Special jurisdiction Trials under Section 30, Criminal | Statement VIII
Procedure Code
CT SewanTiks | Seema VEw) |
Jurisdiction over European
British subjects.
Trials under Frontier
Regulations


--- Page 782 ---
High Court Rules and Orders — Vol. IV 253
————
;
2
g . . Reference to Statements
O [Wimese [Name | StementIV, column 37 |
Cr beeen |
rr [Dies
EN TY
| [Es
Process-serving ~~ Establishment
and Police
simple
7
TT [Foeotpopery [|
EE  . E
I lel I
realized
CL EER
appealable convictions
1 I Disvibuionofappelimbusiness | |
I Fl I.
appeals
CTT EEEEY
preliminary investigation by
Police (Sections 200 and 202,
Criminal Procedure Code).
HE
examinations and confessions of
accused persons
I Fl I
previously convicted
IE =
Procedure Code
Co I SeionsreiCol [|
=r
Sections 221 and 511, Criminal
Procedure Code.
I Sh
notice.
13 General Supervision ~~ of subordinate
Courts:--
by means of appeals
by inspection of files and
registers
IE = I
criticized.
Td NomofOffes | | |
[15 | Any other subject | Hore nsrt any subject thats not | |


--- Page 783 ---
254 High Court Rules and Orders — Vol. IV
————
El . . Reference to Statements

|
EETEETY
Administration of | subject contained in the first
Criminal Justice twelve heads, and yet is
connected with the
Administration ~~ of ~~ Criminal
Justice
ANNEXURE II
LIST OF ANNUAL STATEMENTS
| A-rovnCiALstAmeMENs |
 @aw |
L Part] Showing the number of Judicial Divisions and number of officers exercising
irr ta ron ST Deer ts |
19 .
of Punjab during the year 19 .
the Punjab during in year 19 .
jurisdiction in the Province of the Punjab in the year 19 .
jurisdiction in the province of the Punjabin year 10___
in the year 19 .
intheyear 19.
CT soeevaRvsTATEMENT |
Rar se
1920) in the Civil Courts of the Punjab during the year 19.
7 of the act and the number of Insolvents before the Courts.
made in winding them up during the year 19.
rr ®Crimna |]
I 57
appellate or original jurisdiction in the Punjab during the year.
Punjab during the year.
the year.
during the year.


--- Page 784 ---
High Court Rules and Orders — Vol. IV 255
— 1 CL LT A
| andacquiied of ach clas of offence in the Punjab during heyear |

the Punjab during the year.
|B DISTRICTANDSISSONSSTATEVENTS |
CT  @hiwswemes—CG |
last day of the year
II. Part I Showing the number and description of civil original cases instituted in the
| cone don of orga as i 0 |
Civil Court.
original jurisdiction.
CB SonSwenes |
Section 7 of the Act and the number of insolvents before the Courts.
VII, Part IT Showing the number of estates in the hands of Receivers and the progress
TET | ii ma re RE he porn |
references to arbitration, and applications for review of judgments with
particulars regarding the issue of commissions, attachment before judgment,
and the award of interest on decrees.
service of process.
CT GSonSwees |
Sessions Court.
Co Drier Smens Goad |
the last day of the year.
during the year.
officers).
classes. (Classes of Courts).


--- Page 785 ---
256 High Court Rules and Orders — Vol. IV
————
Brief Description of contents
V, Part II Showing punishments by the various Criminal Tribunals.
Showing particulars of whipping inflicted.
Showing the result of appeals and applications for revision in criminal cases.
Showing the use of juries under Chapter X of the Criminal Procedure Code.
VIII Showing the general result of trial of European British subjects.

PART C — PERIODICAL REPORTS AND RETURNS DUE TO DISTRICT AND
SESSIONS JUDGES AND DISTRICT MAGISTRATES, AND BY THEM BY THE HIGH
COURT

1. Introductory.—In addition to the annual statements, certain monthly and quarterly
returns have been prescribed by the High Court in order to enable the Judges to exercise a constant
check upon the state of business in subordinate Courts and the manner in which that business is
disposed of.

2. District and Sessions Judges’ Statements.—District and Sessions Courts are required
to submit the following monthly returns:--

No. 1. Statement of Sessions cases, Criminal appeals and Criminal References and of Civil
appeals, Original Civil cases, Insolvency and Liquidation cases instituted, disposed of and pending
in the Court of the District and Sessions Judge during the month.

No. 2. Statements of persons punished and acquitted by the Sessions Court during the month.

No. 3. Statements of persons awaiting trial by the Sessions Courts.

No. 4. Statement showing the number of civil suits instituted, disposed of and pending in the
Courts of Subordinate Judges during the month (except for the month of September).

3. Monthly statements to be retained in High Court.—All monthly statements
submitted to the High Court will be retained in the High Court Office.

4. Subordinate Judges’ statements.—The following returns are required from Civil
Courts subordinate to the District Judge:--

Civil Quarterly District Statements

No. 1 Showing civil suits and appeals disposed of and pending and execution work, and the
number of hearings fixed for civil cases in each Court.

No.2 Showing the number of fresh Civil suits and Execution cases instituted in the Civil
Courts.

Note: Quarterly returns must reach the High Court by the 10th of the month succeeding the
quarter to which they relate.

5. District Criminal Courts’ statements.—District Criminal Courts are required to
submit the following returns:--

Criminal Quarterly District Statements

No.1— Showing Criminal cases instituted, disposed of and pending

No.2 — Showing convictions of persons previously convicted.

No.3 — Showing the number of fresh cases instituted.

Note: Due by District Magistrates to Sessions Judges on the Sth and to High Court of the 10th

of the month succeeding the quarter to which they relate.


--- Page 786 ---
High Court Rules and Orders — Vol. IV 257
————

6. Criminal Courts’ Statement No. 2.—Magistrate’s statement No. 2 should be prepared
according to the following directions:--

(a) Columns 1 to 6 should be filled in by the official concerned.

(b) The cases should be entered in the order in which they were instituted.

(c) The Magistrate should sign the statement and he will be responsible for the correctness

of the entries thereof.

(d) In column 7 the explanation for delay in the disposal of a case should be given in some
detail. The circumstances in which service on witnesses or accused could not be
effected, the time actually taken by the Appellate Court in disposing of transfer
application etc. should be given. If the record was sent to some Court, the number and
date of the letter by which it was requisitioned and also the number and date of the
letter by which it was sent should be given.

(e) History sheets containing abstracts of orders passed on different dates to all cases
pending over one year (provided they are not stayed) should be furnished with the
Statement.

7. Remarks—District Magistrates and District and Sessions Judges should carefully
scrutinize the monthly statements of their Districts, as they come before them, in order to enable
them to remarks, upon anything that may appear to be irregular or unsatisfactory, and to take
immediate, steps to correct what is a miss. Their remarks and orders should be communicated
once to the officer concerned. The District Magistrate should forward a copy of his remarks and
orders with the statements, to the Sessions Judge, the original draft being retained with the office
copies of the statements in the District office for record.

8. Submission to High Court.—On receipt of the District Criminal Statements, the
Sessions Judge should carefully review them, notice and take measures to correct any irregularise
which have been passed over by the District Magistrate and forward at once a copy of his remarks
to the District Magistrate, for communication to the officer concerned. When the Sessions Judge
has thus disposed or that District Criminal Statements he will submit them, with the District
Magistrate’s remarks, and a copy of his own, to the High Court, retaining a copy of his own
remarks for record in his office.

The Sessions Judge should note in the covering letter whether a copy of the remarks
recorded by him was sent to the District Magistrate.

9. Statement No. IIL.—With reference to quarterly statement No. III, of convictions of
persons previously convicted, it is directed, that, when intimation is received by a District
Magistrate from the Sessions Judge or the High Court that the sentence passed by a subordinate on
a second conviction is light, without the records being called for, the District Magistrate shall look
into the case himself and make such communication as he thinks proper to the Magistrate
concerned; or, if he considers the punishment awarded completely inadequate, report the case for
revision in the usual way.

10.  Forms.—Forms of the statements required in paragraphs 2; 4 and 5 above will be
found in the Books of Forms given in the Rules and Orders, Volume VI.

11.  Reference.—Detailed instructions regarding the annual reports and returns required for
the preparation of the annual notes on the Administration of Civil and Criminal Justice will be
found in Part B of this Chapter.

12. Certificate as to delivery of judgments.—(i) All District and Sessions Judges should,
in their monthly statements of work, furnish a certificate to the following effect:--

“Certified that judgments have been delivered within a month of the final hearing of
arguments in all suits and appeals except in the following cases...”


--- Page 787 ---
258 High Court Rules and Orders — Vol. IV
————

They should also append a certificate in the following form on the Subordinate Civil
Courts statement referred at paragraph 2(4) above:--

(1) Certified that all stipendiary and Honorary Subordinate Judges have pronounced
judgments within a month of the final hearing of arguments in all suits and appeals,
except in the cases for which explanations are attached.

(2) Certified that the provisions of [Section 15 of the West Pakistan Money Lenders Ord.
1960] were duly complied with in all suits for debts tried by all the Civil Courts.

(ii) A certificate in the following form should also be furnished with the statements
showing the work instituted, disposed of and pending in the Court of the District Judge and the
Courts of Subordinate Judges during the month of August each year.

Certified that decrees have been drawn-up in all suits and appeals decided by the
undersigned/all Subordinate Judges before the vacation and that the records of all such
suits and appeals have been consigned to the Record Room' “except in the following
cases for which explanations are attached:---

13. List of cases adjourned for arguments.—Each Subordinate Judge must furnish to the
District Judge, with his monthly statement of his pending file, a list showing all cases that have
been adjourned by him for arguments during the month and the period for each has been so
adjourned. (High Court letter No, 8228-G, dated the 30th November, 1928).

14. Remarks by District Judge on monthly statements.—It is the duty of the District
Judge to control and adjust to the best advantage and equalize the work in subordinate Courts. He
should watch institutions and disposals and see that each officer’s outturn is normal. He should
therefore make his remarks on the monthly pending file statements under the following heads:--

(i) Subordinate Judges who in his opinion have not given sufficient outturn and have

therefore been warned.

(ii) Steps taken or proposed to be taken to equalize work in different Courts.

(ili) Suggestions for investiture of or enhanced Small Cause powers in order to quicken
disposal of petty cases.

(iv) Steps taken or proposed to be taken to prevent accumulation of execution cases where
such work is heavy.

(v) Steps taken to ensure that 3rd and 4th class cases are not neglected owing to higher
class cases.

15. In order to put a stop to bad cases of delay in subordinate Courts, abstracts of order
sheets shall be submitted by each Subordinate Judge to his District Judge in respect of all original
suits, appeals and execution cases pending over for more than a year. The District Judge shall
examine them and after recording his remarks thereon, with details of action, if any taken, by him
to prevent a recurrence of the same mistake, shall forward them to the High Court. They shall not
be forwarded simply “for examination by the Judges.” District Judges shall similarly submit
abstracts of order sheets for their own Courts.

16. Date of submission of abstracts.—Abstracts for the whole division shall be submitted
at one and the same time and by the 15th of the month following the quarter to which they relate
which shall be clearly specified in the forwarding letter.

PART D — INFORMATION TO BE SUPPLIED TO THE POLICE IN REGARD TO

CRIMINAL STATISTICS
'Delete if necessary.


--- Page 788 ---
High Court Rules and Orders — Vol. IV 259
————
1. Statements to be supplied to Police.—The Judges are pleased to direct, in accordance
with the letter No. 277 (Home — Police), dated the 24th October, 1905, from the Secretary to
Government, Punjab, that certain statements giving criminal statistics shall be supplied by each
District Magistrate to the District Superintendent of Police in his district, as soon after the 1st
January in each year as possible. The forms of these statements will be found in Volume VI-B,
Part B-V.

2. Columns to be filled in by Magistrates.—It should be noted that the only columns of
Statement A, Parts I and II, which Magistrates are required to fill up, are columns 1, 2, 3, 15 and
16 of Part I, and columns 1, 2, 3, 13, 14 and 15 of Part II. But Magistrates are required to fill up
the whole of Statements B, Parts I and II, and the whole of Statement C, which only refers to
property stolen and recovered in cases taken up direct by Magistrates.

3. Directions as to certain columns.—Columns 15 and 16 of Statement A, Part I, should
show all cognizable offences taken up direct by Magistrates otherwise than on a Police report.
Columns 13, 14 and 15 of Statement A, Part II, should show all persons concerned in cases taken
up direct by Magistrates, otherwise than on a Police report.

4. Final order to be entered.—It should be noted that the order to be shown in these
returns as the result of a trial is the final order in the case, and therefore the order in force at the
close of the year should be shown. If the order of the lower Court has been reversed or modified
within the year, it is the order of the Appellate or Revisional Court which must appear in the
statement.

PART E - INFORMATION TO BE SUPPLIED TO THE CANAL AUTHORITIES

The annual return showing the number and nature of judicial cases disposed of by the
Canal Deputy Collectors and Sub-Divisional Officers during a year has been discontinued as a
result of the withdrawal of Magisterial Powers from Canal officers. It is, however, necessary, that
the Irrigation Department should still continue to get information as to the number of cases
instituted under the Canal Act, Information relating to all the cases instituted under the Canal Act,
VIII of 1873, should be supplied by the District Magistrate to the Superintending Engineers of the
Irrigation Department annually, as soon after the close of the calendar year as possible to enable
the latter to submit the same to the Chief Engineer by the 1st February.

PART F — RETURN OF CASES IN WHICH THE COLLECTOR ACTS AS
MINISTERIAL OFFICER IN THE EXECUTION DECREES

The Judges have been pleased to direct that the Civil Courts should submit periodical
returns concerning all cases in which the execution remains in the hands of the Court and the
Collector only assists as a Ministerial Officer of the Court in arranging temporary alienations, that
is to say, all cases, except those in which the Court has authorized the Collector under Section 72
to provide for the satisfaction of the decree by temporary alienation of land against the sale of
which there is no legal prohibition. In three excepted cases the Collector acts judicially as laid
down in Section 72(2) read with Section 71. Collectors are being directed by Financial
Commissioners to furnish periodical returns relating to these cases. The Judges have, with the
concurrence of the Financial Commissioners, drawn up three forms of quarterly statements (A) for
return by Collectors, and (B) and (C) for return by Courts. These are given in the Book of Civil
Forms — (High Court letter No. 6076-G, dated the 28th September, 1926).


--- Page 789 ---
260 High Court Rules and Orders — Vol. IV
————
APPENDIX I
List of Periodical Reports and Returns submitted to the High Court and the dates
on which they are due
Description of Report or | Latest date of Remarks
Return submission to
High Court
AY
Statement of probates and | 10th April By District Judge
letters of administration
List of legal Practitioners | 15th January By District Judge
List of the Pleaders and | 15th January By District Judge
Mukhtars who certificates
have been renewed.
Criminal report and | Ist February By District Magistrate to Sessions Judge not later
statements. than 1st February, office copies being sent to High
Court at the same time. Fair copies are to be sent
by Sessions Judge to High Court not later than
15th February.
Civil report and | 15th February | By district Judge
statements
Confidential list of | 15th February | By district Judge
certain persons who are
considered fit to exercise
or fit to be tried with
certain judicial powers.
Report on the condition | Ist. April By District Judge
of Libraries of
Subordinate Courts
Reports on the civil | 2nd April By District Judge
judicial work of officers
ofthe L.C.S. and P.C.S.
Reports on the civil | 2nd April By District Judge
judicial work of Political
Probationers of the
Central Government
Reports on the civil | 2nd April By District Judge
judicial work of Honorary
Subordinate judges.
Reports on the | 21st April By Session Judge to whom they will be sent by
magisterial work of District magistrate by 2nd April.
officers of the S.C.S. and
PCS.
Estimates of Expenditure | 15th July By District Judge
for Stationery.
Annual return of licensed | 1st October By District Judge
Petition-writers
T5th September | By District Judge
Annual indent for | Ist September | By District Judge
Stationery for
Subordinate Courts.


--- Page 790 ---
High Court Rules and Orders — Vol. IV 261
———
Description of Report or | Latest date of Remarks
Return submission to
High Court
Recommendations for the | 15th November | By District Judge
issue of licenses to
Petition-writers
Coinage statement 15th January By District Magistrate
List of judicial buildings | Ist July By District Judge
QUARTERLY rr]
District Civil Statement | 10th of month | By District Judge
No.l succeeding
quarter for
which due
District Criminal | 10th of month | By District magistrate to Sessions judge on Sth
Statements I to IIT succeeding and to High Court on 10th
quarter for
which due
Abstract of order sheets | 15th of the | District Judge and Subordinate Judge
of cases pending over a | month
year. succeeding the
quarter for
which due
Notes about inspection of | 15th of the | District judge and Subordinate Judge
their Courts by the | month
pending officers. succeeding the
quarter for
which due
MONTHLY I
Statement of Civil and | 15th of next | By District and Sessions Judge.
Criminal work of District | month.
and Sessions Courts.
District Criminal By District Magistrate to Sessions Judge on 7th of
Statements I to IIT next month.
Return of suits pending in | 10th of next | By District Judge.
Courts of Subordinate | month
Judge
! Note: It is discretionary with District and Sessions Judges to call for either monthly or quarterly Civil Statements from
Courts subordinate to them.


--- Page 791 ---
262 High Court Rules and Orders — Vol. IV
————
APPENDIX IT
List of periodical returns of which blank forms will be supplied by the High Court without
indent
Ca [ee

Sessions Judge
vey
Er I I

English
RE I A
Vernacular
Er I I
English
RE Ea I
Vernacular
[Sewions Sermons Nos Tw Ving | 3 | =|
Sesion Semis Nos Tt V, in Vermaealar | 3 | — |
EG I I
English
I I I
Vernacular
Subject headings for Gv and Crmimal pons | 3 |= |
Ere I I
administration
[Comage Semen inEogloh | — | 3 |
[Comage Semen, in Verasalr | — | 3 |
Er I I
in English
Ee I I
in Vernacular
— awmmy |
Semen: of foes eld n Seon wes | — ||
tl llellil IN I
administration
wow |
Ee I I
English
RE I I
Vernacular
[Dist Cl Saoment No. Lin English | 16 | =|
[Dist Cl Stent No. Lin Vermaedlar | 45 ||
ERS i I
District and Sessions Judge, Nos. I to III
Bret] I
Subordinate Judges


--- Page 792 ---
High Court Rules and Orders — Vol. IV 263
———
CHAPTER - 24
REGISTERS

1. Indents.—The Registers prescribed for use in all Civil and Criminal Courts will be
obtained from the Superintendent, Government Printing, Punjab, Lahore, to whom indents will be
submitted by District and Sessions Judges in accordance with the instructions laid down in the
Punjab Printing and Stationery Manual.

2. Building, size etc.—All registers will be made of convenient sizes with all headings
and columns printed and ruled. The paper will be country-milled paper, known as Badami, and the
binding will be of card board with leather backs and corners in the case of registers which are
preserved for 12 years or more, and with Kharwa cloth in the case of other registers.

3. Suggestions for alterations.—Should any officer desire to suggest alteration of a
prescribed register, he should address the District and Sessions Judge who will make such
recommendations as he thinks fit to the High Court. In no case should be Superintendent,
Government Printing, Punjab, be addressed direct in such a matter.

4. Explanation of the list be given in the Appendix.—The registers which have been
prescribed by the High Court, with the sanction of the Provincial Government, for adoption in the
subordinate Civil and Criminal Courts of the Punjab are enumerated in the appendix to this
chapter in which is also indicated the Courts in which each register is to be maintained and the
officials who will maintain them. Part I of the appendix enumerates the registers which are
reproduced in Volumes VI-A and VI-B, Rules and Orders of the High Court; Part II of the
Appendix enumerates the registers which are not reproduced in Volumes VI-A and VI-B but in the
other Volumes I to IV. The remarks made in the column of remarks in the appendix should be read
with the foot-notes, where they exist, to the registers reproduced in Volumes VI-A and VI-13 for
instructions as to the manner in which certain registers are to be maintained.

![5. Registers to be kept in English.—The headings of registers in all Civil and Criminal
Courts will be in Urdu and should be maintained in that language].

?5.A. In all registers Challans, Vouchers and receipts in respect of monetary transactions
amount should be mentioned both in figures and words in such a manner that it becomes
impossible to alter them or make any interpolation without disfiguring the entries. In particular,
the amount in words should be in a straight line with the printed word “rupees” and not below the
level of the printed matter.

6. Common mistakes in filling up register.—Presiding Officers must remember that
they are responsible to see that the registers of their Courts are correctly and regularly written up.
The following is a list of the common mistakes made by officials in writing up registers, Mistakes
of this kind must be avoided:---

(1) Many registers have no peshani or heading at all, while some of them are in such a torn
and multilated condition that they are of no practical value. It is impossible to maintain
any register correctly unless it has a regular heading in good condition.

(2) Entries are sometimes made in a running order across several columns. Each individual
column must be filled up separately.

(3) Entries do not follow the column headings, but are made regardless of them. This
creates confusion.

(4) Some entries are written partly in English and partly in Urdu.

(C.S:No. 54/XVIII-D-20(a), dated the 23rd October, 1948).
*(C.S.No. 133-Genl/XII, A-12, dated Lahore the 31st January, 1968).


--- Page 793 ---
264 High Court Rules and Orders — Vol. IV
—

(5) Entries cancelled do not bear any initials.

(6) Persian ragums are used in filling some columns. English numerals should always be
used.

(7) Entries are sometimes made in pencil which is objectionable.

(8) Separate serial numbers are not given for each calendar year.

(9) Sometimes the serial number is changed with a change of register; it should only be
changed with the new year.

(10) In the several registers in which an abstract of the orders passed is to be entered, the
entry very often merely says “dakhal dafier ho” or “consigned to the record room”.
This is not sufficient. The particulars of the orders passed should be entered in greater
detail so as to show exactly how the case was disposed of or why was consigned to the
record room.

(11) In the several registers in which the name of the Judge or Magistrate deciding the case
is to be entered, the name should always be set out in full. Entries saying “Malik Sahib”
or “Sardar Sahib” are meaningless and will not be understood after a few years if and
when it becomes necessary to find out the name of the presiding officer. The name of
an English Officer, or of an Pakistan Officer, who has anglicized his name, should be
written in English characters, even if the register is kept in Urdu.

7. All civil and criminal registers shall be consigned to the Record Room to which Judicial
files are normally consigned; they should be destroyed under the supervision of the Record keeper
in accordance with the rules contained in Chapter 16-F of Volume IV.

8. The Execution Moharrir of each Court shall be responsible for the safe custody of old
volumes of civil Register No. 1 till they are consigned to the Record Room. The officials who
maintain the other registers shall be responsible for the safe custody of old volumes of them.

9. The following registers shall be consigned to the Record Room 12 years after their
completion:--

Civil Registers Nos. I and X.
10. The followings registers shall be consigned to the Record Room 6 after years after their
completion:--
Civil Registers Nos. IL, IIL, IV, VI, VIL, XI, XII, XIII, XIV, XXVI and XX VIL
(Note): When civil Register No. XXVI is sent to the Record Room, entries relating to
properties of minors (not accounts) in cases still pending should be copied into the new register.
Miscellaneous Registers A and B

11. The following registers shall be consigned to the Record Room 3 years after their
completion:--

Civil Register Nos. XXV, XXVIII, XXIX, XXX and XXXIL Miscellaneous Registers C,
E,F,G,H,1,J,K, L,M and P. Criminal Registers Nos. V, VI, VIL, VIIL IX, X and XVIIL.

12. The following registers shall be consigned to the Record Room 2 years after their
completion:--

Criminal Registers Nos. I, II, III, IV, XI, XII and XVIL.

13. The following registers shall be consigned to the Record Room one year after their
completion:--

Civil Registers Nos. V, VIII, IX, XVI, XVII, XVII, XIX, XX, XXI-A, XXI-B, XXI-C, XXII,


--- Page 794 ---
High Court Rules and Orders — Vol. IV 265
—
XXIII and XXIV.

14. Criminal Registers Nos. XIV and XV shall be consigned to the Record Room after the
expiry of every calendar year; and criminal register No. XIII shall be consigned when it is
finished.

15. No register should ordinarily be retained in a Court after the period prescribed for its
consignment to the Record Room. If the Presiding Officer of a Court wishes to retain any register
for a longer period, he should record his reasons for doing so in writing and communicate them to
the Record Keeper concerned.


--- Page 795 ---
266 High Court Rules and Orders — Vol. IV
APPENDIX
PART I - REGISTERS REFERRED TO IN PARAGRAPH 4 AS BEING REPRODUCED IN VOLUMES VI-A AND VI-B, RULES AND ORDERS
No of Name of Register Court in which to be kept | Official by whom to
Register be kept
(a) LIST OF CIVIL REGISTERS
Register of Civil Suits | (a) All sub-Judges’ Courts | Ahmad @) A separate register should be opened in cach
(honourary and Court exercising original Civil Jurisdiction.
stipendiary)
[| (® Small Cause Court Clerk of Court (ii) See footnotes to form in Volume VI-A, Part A-IV.

(ii) Costs should be shown separate from the thing, or
substantive sum, decreed in column IL.

(iv) The names of the Counsel of the parties should be
noted in each case together with a remark as to
whether or not be Counsel is authorized to receive
‘moneys in execution.

(v) The terms of a decree passed on a compromise
should always be entered in detail. A mere note
saying “decree on compromise” is not sufficient

Register of | (a) Courts of District Judge. | Ahlmad Tn this register should be entered all cases cognizable by
Miscellaneous suits | (b) Courts of sub-Judges a principal Court of original jurisdiction for which no
cognizable only by a | where empowered. special register is prescribed, c.g, applications relating
principal Court of to minors under Act VIII of 1890, & applications for
original jurisdiction Succession Certificates Probates, or Letters of

Administration, under the Succession Act. See footnotes

to form in Volume VI-A, Part A-IV.

Register of Divorce | Courts of District Judge ‘Ahlmad See footnotes to form in Volume VI-A, Part A-IV. All
and Matrimonial cases petitions under Section 5 of the Muslim Personal Law

(Shariat) Act XXVI of 1937, should be entered in this

Register.

Register of cases under | Courts of District Judge See footnotes to form in Volume VI-A, Part A-IV. All


--- Page 796 ---
High Court Rules and Orders — Vol. IV 267
No of Name of Register Court in which to be kept Official by whom to
Register be kept
the Land Acquisition ‘petitions under Section 5 of the Muslim Personal Law
Act (Sharia) Act XXVI of 1937, should be entered in this
Register.
v Register of Pr robates, © Couns of ies Jie Ablmad In compliance with the orders of Government, Courts
ration and ®) outs of Subludges are directed to keep up a register of Probates, Letters of
) where empowered. ‘Administration and Succession Certificates granted by
Succession Certificates
them and of the amount of stamp duty levied thereon.
granted.
“The register may be opened as subsidiary to register II
and in a part of the same book, if convenient. The
information is required annually and the return should
be dispatched to the High Court.
VI | Register of | All Civil Courls ‘Ablmad See footnotes to form in volume VI-A, Part AV.
Miscellaneous
petitions and
applications
VII | Register of | All Civil Courts ‘Ablmad
applications to sue and
appeal as a pauper
VII | Register of rejected | All Civil Courts Reader () The cairies should be made the Reader on the order
and retumed plaints of rejection or of return being made by the presiding
and memoranda of officer of the Court. It is not correct to wait until the
appeal party concerned tums up to take back the papers before
making and entry in this register.
(ii) This register must not be used for “documents
retuned” for which a separate register XXIV is
prescribed.
IX | Register of dates fixed | All Civil courts Reader ‘When the number of appeals and exeoution cases is very
for ial of original large separate registers may be kept for the dates fixed
suits, appeals, and for appeals and execution cases. There should be a


--- Page 797 ---
268 High Court Rules and Orders — Vol. IV
No of Name of Register Court in which to be kept Official by whom to
Register be kept
execution of decrees Separate page for each working day the year and when a
cause is set down for hearing on any date, the cause
should be entered in the proper page of the register. See
also footnotes to form in Volume VI-A, Part A-IV, as
amended by Correction Slip No. 6, dated 26th April,
1935.
X | Register of exccution | All Civil courts Execution Mohararrir | (i) Column 9 for adjustments subsequently to the
of decrees decrees should be filled up carefully and regularly.
(i) Column 8 is for the amount decreed and column
10 for the amount for which execution is sought in
any particular execution. It is a common mistake
to put down the same amount in both the columns.
‘The mistake should be avoided.
1 |i) Seehootmotetoformin Volume VLAPart ATV. |
XI | Register of mis- | All Civil Courts Exccution Mohair | Column 8 is for the “specification of the property, if
cellancous petitions in any, to which the claim in the petition relates.” These
exceution proceedings specifications must be given in sufficient details. Such
entries as “Jaidad Maqruka” or “property attached” are
meaningless. The Khasra Numbers of Agricultural land,
boundaries of house properties, and a description of the
cattle in dispute should be given.
XI | Register of | All Civil Courts. ‘Ahlmad
applications for review
in suits and appeals
and for amendment of
decrees.
XII | Register of appeals | Courts invested with | Ahlmad When a memorandum of appeal is admitted, the
from decrees. appellate powers Appellate Court shall endorse thereon the date of
presentation, and shall register the appeal in a book to be
kept for the purpose; such books shall be called the


--- Page 798 ---
High Court Rules and Orders — Vol. IV 269
No of Name of Register Court in which to be kept Official by whom to
Register be kept
Register of Appeals. (Order XLL Rule 9, of Act V of
1908).

XIV | Register of | Cours invested with | Ablmad Tn this register should be entered all appeals from orders
miscellancous appeals appellate powers which do not appear in Register XIIL.

XV | Record-keeper's Record Rooms of: Record-keeper. "The entries in this register should be made as the file of
General Register of | (a) courts of District Judges cach decided case is received in the record room by the
suits and appeals | (So! Cause Court record-keeper. If more than a week expires between the
disposed of © S re ours date of decision and the date of filing of any record, the

(©) other Civil Courts record-keeper should bring the delay to the notice of
Deputy Commissioner or the District Judge, as the case
may be furnished.

XVI | Register of Judgment- | All Civil Courts “Ablmad @ Column 10 is for the amount of dict money
debtors. imprisoned in deposited with the period for which it is deposited
excution of decrees and the rate at which it is calculated. Al these

particulars must be furnished.
(i) The reason of release must be noted invariably in
column 13.

XVII | Register of persons | All Civil Courts Reader
punished for Contempt
of Court

XVII | Register of stamp | All Civil Courts Reader @ At the end of every, month an extract from this
deficiencies to be register showing the duties and penalties levied
maintained by Courts during the month, with the other particulars
and Offices entered in the register, must be sent to the Deputy

Commissioner

(i) An adequate description of cach document must
be given in column 6.

(il) Column 22 (Brief Reasons) must be filled up
intelligently and not let blank


--- Page 799 ---
270 High Court Rules and Orders — Vol. IV
Register be kept
HES Nd
Commissions Court
XX | Register of Process | Court of: Nazir
Servers (a) District Judge;
(b) Senior Sub-Judge
() Small Cause Courts
ll ih
Qanungo
Commissioners issued evidence required. This must be given, in details.
to the Special Qanungo
XXI-C | Register of inspection | (i) District Judge; Clerk of Court
lll ev SE
al =
exceuted by Bailiffs
served by process to see that there is a proper distribution of work amongst
servers the different process-servers.
returned admitted in evidence a receipt shall be given by
the party receiving it in a receipt book kept for the
purpose (Order XVI, Rule 9, of Act V of 1908).
EE EN NN ly +l
must be given in column 4.
I al al
of documents in cases which have been consigned to the
Record Room.
la id a
and refunds of


--- Page 800 ---
High Court Rules and Orders — Vol. IV m
No of Name of Register Court in which to be kept Official by whom to
Register be kept
Commission onsale
proceeds in execution
proceedings
Co Alec [Aw [|
XXVI | Register relating to the | (a) District Judge ‘Ahlmad Special attention must be given to filling up the entries
property of minors and in part 2 of the Register.
annual accounts of
their estates.
(©) Sub-Judge where
empowered
XXVII | Register of persons | All Courts exercising | Ahlmad
adjudicated insolvents | insolvency jurisdiction.
and administration of
their estates
XXVIII | Register of applications | All Civil Courts Reader or Ahmad
under Section 31 of the
Punjab Relief of
Indebtedness Act, 1934
XXIX | Diary Register for | All Civil Courts Process-server for
process-servers and Bailiff
Bailiffs
XXX | Register of | All Civil Courts Reader
declarations under the
Muslim personal Law
(Shariat) Application
Act, 1937
XXXI | Register of records | Record Rooms under the | Record-Keeper
under the Muslim | control of Deputy
Personal Law (Shariat) | Commissioners
Application Act, 1937.


--- Page 801 ---
m High Court Rules and Orders — Vol. IV

No of Name of Register Court in which to be kept Official by whom to

Register be kept

XXXII | Register of appeals | District Judge ‘Ahlmad
under the Muslim
Personal Law (Shariat)
Application Act, 1937

XXXII | Register showing the | All Civil Courts ‘Ahlmad
decrees transferred to
the other Courts and
vice versa.

XXXIV | Register of | DistricAdditional judges | Reader or Ahlmad at
applications for | Court or Courts of Sub- | the discretion of the
revision under the | Judges/Civil Judge Court
conciliation courts
ordinance, 1961
Register of cognizable | Courts empowered to | Ahlmad @) Under section 157, Criminal Procedure code,
and non-cognizable | receive complaints or reports intimation is to be sent to the Magistrate having
offences instituted on jurisdiction of all complaints or information
complaint or on preferred to the police of all cognizable offences,
Magistrate's own Columns 1 to 13 of Register should be filled up by
motion or reported by the proper officer of the court as soon as orders
the Police under have been passed by the Magistrate on the
Sections 157 and 173, complaint or report submited by the police.
Criminal Procedure
Code.

(i) Entries in column 3 should be classified as “ALD
or “Be” according to the instructions given in the
printing heading.

(iil) Column 11 should not be left blank as is often
done. See footnotes to form in Volume VI-B, Part
B-IV.


--- Page 802 ---
High Court Rules and Orders — Vol. IV 273
No of Name of Register Court in which to be kept Official by whom to
Register be kept
Register of cases under | All Magistrates’ Courts | Ahlmad (@) In this register should be entered all cases under
the Penal Code (honourary and stipendiary) the Penal Code sent up for trial by the Police, or
entertained by the Magistrates on complaint
preferred directly to themselves.

(i) Appealable cases should always be marked as
such.

(iil) Column 15 should mention the “Head of Crime”
applicable as given in the police statement A, on
page 40-43, Part B-V of the Rules and Orders,
Volume VI-B.

Register of cases under | All Magistrates’ Courts | Ahmad “All cases of offences punishable under Special and
Special and Local | (stipendiary and honorary). Local Laws and security cases under Chapter VIII of the
Laws and under the Code of Criminal Procedure should appear in this

code of Criminal register.

Procedure

IV | Register of [ (a) Sessions Courts ‘Ahlmad Tn this register should be entered all cases under the
Miscellaneous (b) All Magistrate's Courts Code of Criminal Procedure not involving offences and
Criminal Cases (honourary and miscellaneous case not forming the subject of a regular
stipendiary) trial, such as inquiries into claims to suspected property,
claims to restore property declared to be forfeited under

Sections 87 and 88 of the Criminal Procedure Code,

rights to unclaimed property cinder Sections 25 to 27 of

Act V of 1861 etc.

V [Register of case | All Magistrates’ Courts | Ahlmad “This and register V1 are intended to furnish materials for
decided in each Court | (honourary and stipendiary). the compilation of the annual returns.

The entries in this register are to be made at once on the

conclusion of the trial. In columns 38 to 41 a distinctive

mark should be used to show whether the imprisonment
was rigorous or simple. At the close of the year the
persons and cases in the pending file must be added in


--- Page 803 ---
274 High Court Rules and Orders — Vol. IV
No of Name of Register Court in which to be kept Official by whom to
Register be kept

the appropriate columns 5 to 10 and 20 fo complete the
figures for the annual statements. When a case is
transferred from one Court to another in the same
District, the case will not be entered in the register of the
transferring Court, but will be shown as if it had been
originally instituted in the Court which eventually
disposed it of. When a case is transferred to another
District or Province a note in the column of remarks
should show the District or Province to which the case
has been transferred. In cases in which a complainant is
required to pay compensation to the accused, the fact
should be noted in the column of remarks. A note in the
column or remarks should also show whether the
persons entered in columns 29 to 31 were imprisoned in
default; and if so, for how many days they remained in
prison, the amount of security or recognizance demand
being specified.

VI | Register showing the | District Magistrate Statistical Clerk Cases on which orders have been passed will be entered
number of offences under the proper head of crime from time to time. To
reported and brought to enable the Statistical Clerk to write up this register, all
trial and of persons Courts will furnish a return in vernacular form No. C.0.
discharged, acquitted 124 to reach him on the 7th, 15th, 22nd and the last day
or convicted. of each month. Pending cases will be added at the end of

the year in order to complete the entries to be made in
the ‘annual statement IL. It must be remembered that
cases committed or referred to a higher Court are to be
entered when the result in the higher Court has been
ascertained; until then they will be treated as pending. In
such cases the Court which finally disposed of the case
and the number of the case in the register of that Court
will be entered in column 2. Cases transferred to another


--- Page 804 ---
High Court Rules and Orders — Vol. IV 275
No of Name of Register ‘Court in which to be kept | Official by whom to
Register be kept
Court in the Punjab will not be entered until the case has
been finally disposed of.
To ensure this register being properly brought up-to-date
at the close of cach year, Sessions Judges should take
care that the results of all cases (whether received on
commitment or reference) decided during the year are
duly intimated to the Magistrate of the District
concerned before the close of the year. Similarly care
should be taken that the results of all references under
Section 374, Criminal Procedure Code, and of
commitals to the High Court disposed of during the
year, are duly communicated before the close of the
year.
VII | Register of Sessions | Sessions Courts ‘Ahlmad
trial and of references
made to the Court of
Sessions under Section
123, Criminal
Procedure Code
VIII | Register of trials of | Sessions Courts Clerk of Court
European British
Subjects
IX | Registers of | (a) District Magistrates (a) Superintendent
Complaints against, or | (b) Sessions Courts (b) Clerk of Court.
inquiries into, conduct
of the servants of the
State.
X | Register of appeals and | (a) District Magistrate ‘Ahlmad Separate registers for appeals and for revisions will be
revisions in’ Criminal | (b) Other ‘magistrates maintained.
cases empowered _to__hear


--- Page 805 ---
276 High Court Rules and Orders — Vol. IV
No of Name of Register Court in which to be kept Official by whom to
Register be kept
appeals
(©) Sessions Courts
XI | Register of dates fixed | (a) All magistrates’ Courts | Reader Section 344 of the Code of Criminal Procedure limits to
for trial of criminal | (stipendiary and a maximum of 15 days the period for which an
cases including dates | honorary). adjournment or remand can be granted and under
of receipt of cases sent | (b) Sessions Courts. Section 247 summons should always fix a date. Every
up for trial by the criminal case should be decided on the first day that it is
Police brought to Court or adjourned to a fixed date.
XII | Register of prisoners | All Judicial lock-ups. ‘Officer-in-charge “The register is intended to keep the Magistrate informed
under trial. of the number of persons in the lock-up and to serve as a
check on the illegal detention of any persons in custody
and should be carefully maintained.
XII | Register of persons | All Judicial lock-ups. Officer-in-charge
admitted to and
removed from the
lockup in the
Districts.
XIX | Register of Judicial | (a) All Magistrates’ Courts | See next column. ® In every Criminal and Civil Court the Reader of
fines. (stipendiary and the Court will keep up a separate fine register.
honorary). (ii) In addition to this register there will be kept up in
(b) Sessions Courts. the same form at the headquarters of cach district
and general register of fines by the District Fine
Moharrir.

(iii) The amount of fine released should always be
entered in column 12 in the Magistrate's own
handwriting as required by Rule 5(iii) of Chapter
11, Volumes IV, of the Rules and Orders.

(iv) The number and date of the Treasury Receipts
should always be given in column 13.


--- Page 806 ---
High Court Rules and Orders — Vol. IV m7

No of Name of Register ‘Court in which to be kept | Official by whom to

Register be kept

XV | Register of Judicial | District Magistrate District Fine Moharrir | See Chapter II, Volume IV, Rules and Orders.
fine realizations

XVI | Record Keeper's | Record Rooms of Record Keeper The entries in the Register should be made in the order
General Register of | (a) Sessions Courts; in which the files are deposited in the Record Room;
decided cases and if more than a week expires between the date of

b) Other Criminal Courts.

(6) Other Criminal Courts. decision and the date of filling the record, the delay

should be brought to the notice of the District Magistrate
or the Sessions Judge, as the case may be.
It is unnecessary to enter in this register cases dismissed
under Section 203 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, or
cases under the Police, Hackney and Stage Carriages,
Cantonments, Cattle Trespass, Workman's Contract,
Punjab Municipal, Cruelty to Animals, and Vaccination
Acts.

XVI | Register of Summary | All Magistrates exercising | Reader Columns 7 to 14 should be filled in by the Magistrate
Trials summary powers. himself.

XVII | Register of Road and | (a) Sessions’ Courts. Nazir See Chapter 9-B, Rules and Orders, volume IIL. This

witnesses | (b) Magistrates Courts Reader register should be checked by the Magistrate or the
Diet money of Sessions Judge, a least once a week and column 10
assessors initialled.

XIX | Register of prisoners | (a) All Magistrates’ Courts. | Ahimad or any other | This register should be checked once a week by the
who are released or official to be | Presiding Officer of the Court who should see that all
whose punishment is | (b) Sessions Court. nominated by the | warrants are being complied with or received in the
reduced on appeal or Court. jails. He should verify this from the detachable portion
revision. of each warrant.

XX | Register of | District Magistrates and
applications for | Sub-Divisional Magistrates.
transfer of criminal
cases.

Register of traffic “All Magistrates appointed to (1) All cases relating to traffic filed by the Police under


--- Page 807 ---
278 High Court Rules and Orders — Vol. IV
No of Name of Register Court in which to be kept Official by whom to
Register be kept

try traffic cases. any Act other than the Indian Penal Code shall,
affer entry in the Police Traffic Register, be handed
over to the Ahmad of the Magistrate appointed to
try traffic cases. The Ahlmad shall sign the Police
Traffic Register in token of receipt of the
complaints and other papers shown in the Police
Traffic Register, and shall within 24 hours enter
these cases in the Court Register of Traffic Cases
(Register No. XXI).

(2) Cases entered in this register shall not be entered in
Criminal Registers Nos. I and III (prescribed in
Volume VI, Part B-IV of Rules and Orders of the
High Court). For purposes of statistical returns,
cg, pending and old cases, figures relating to
traffic cases which were formerly taken from
Criminal Registers Nos. I and III will now be taken
from the Register of Traffic Cases.

(3) The Traffic Magistrate shall check once a month
the Register of Traffic Cases maintained in his
Court and in the course of his check he shall have
before him the Police Traffic Register. He shall, in
particular, satisfy himself that all cases and licences
shown in the Police Traffic Register have been
entered in the Court’s Register. At the conclusion
of his checks, he shall sign both the registers.

(@) If in any case it has been impossible to obtain the
appearance of the accused, the Magistrate before
consigning the records to the Record Room shall
satisfy himself that any licence shown as having
been impounded and attached to the report is still
present. He shall then forward the impounded


--- Page 808 ---
High Court Rules and Orders — Vol. IV 279
No of Name of Register Court in which to be kept Official by whom to
Register be kept
Ticence to the licensing authority by whom it was
originally issued, through the Police by attaching it
to the “Conviction slip” in which a reference should
be made to it
(5) As far as possible, the records of raffic cases which
are not actually being heard by the Magistrate
should be kept under lock and key, the keys being
retained either by the Magistrate himself or some
particular court official on whom individual
responsibility can be fixed in the event of any loss.
(6) This register will be maintained only in courts to be
selected by the District Magistrate.
(CS. No. 15/XVIILD-20 (a), dated the Ist May 1945).
(c) LIST OF MISCELLANEOUS REGISTERS FOR EITEHR OR BOTH CIVIL AND CRIMINAL COURTS
A | Deleted
(C5. No. SUXVIII-
D.20 (a), dated the
21st January, 1954.
Register of files taken | Record Rooms of —
from the Record Room | (a) District and Sessions
for reference. Courts.
Re rd Kec
(b) Small Cause Courts ecard Reeper
(c) Other Civil and Criminal
Courts.
C | Register of |All Civil and Criminal | Ablmad
miscellancous Courts
proceedings received


--- Page 809 ---
280 High Court Rules and Orders — Vol. IV
5d I FE
Courts
ES = EN LR
packets or letters
IE EE
orders issued in ch (b) District and Sessions | Reader of the Court | guidance of subordinate Courts in the order and date on
judicial department Judges which they were issued.
F | Register of property | (a) Criminal Courts at head- | (a) District Nazir See Chapter 10-A, Rules and Orders, Volume IV.
received into the quarters
Nazir’s store room. (b) Civil courts at head- | (b) Civil Nazir
quarters.
(©) Civil and Criminal | yo:
Cours at Tehsils.
(@) Small Cause Courts Nazir
G | Register of ministerial | (a) District and Sessions | (a) English Clerk ‘At the beginning of each year a list of officials should be
officers Courts and Subordinate made out in the prescribed form, the names of officers
Judges’ Courts. who have been removed or transferred being omitted.
writers
Courts.
= hl EE
correspondence


--- Page 810 ---
High Court Rules and Orders — Vol. IV 281
————
PART II - REGISTERS REFERRED TO IN PARAGRAPH 4 AS NOT BEING
REPRODUCED IN VOLUMES VI-A AND VI-B, BUT IN
VOLUMES I TO IV
Name of Register By whom kept Reference to rules and
Orders, Volumes I to IV
Register of decrees in which | Collector Volume I, Chapter 12-M.
the Collector is authorized to
provide for satisfaction
Register of officials required | Clerk of Court to District and | Volume I, Chapter 18-C.
to furnish security and the | Sessions Judge, Senior Sub-
amount of security deposited | Judge and Small Cause Court.
Register E of Guardians Volume II, Chapter 2-B.
Insolvency registers ER Volume II, Chapters 4 and 5.
Official Receivers’ registers Official Receivers Volume II, Chapter 5.
Civil Court Deposit Registers | Civil Nazir and Nazir Volume II, Chapter 8-E.
Sheriffs ~~ Petty ~~ Accounts | Civil Nazir and Nazirs or | Volume II, Chapter 8-D.
Registers Cashiers.
Note Book of Bailiffs Volume II, Chapter 8-E.
Note Book of Process-servers Volume II, Chapter 8-D.
Register of maintenance orders | Presiding officer of Court Volume IIL, Chapter 7-B.
made by Courts outside British
India for enforcement in
British India.
Register of Arms and | Officer-in-charge of Nazarat. | Volume IV, Chapter 10-B.
Ammunition.
Supply of copies registers Independent Examiner where | Volume IV, Chapters 17-D
such officer exists or senior | and 17-E.
copyist in—
(a) District and Sessions
Judges Courts.
(b) Small Cause Courts.


--- Page 811 ---
282 High Court Rules and Orders — Vol. IV
————
CHAPTER 25
SUPPLY OF FORMS
PART A - SUPPLY OF FORMS

1. Indents—The forms prescribed for the use of Courts are printed by the form work
contractors to the Punjab Government and dispatched direct to indenting officers. All indents for
such forms should be addressed to the Superintendent, Government Printing, Punjab, who has
been appointed the medium of communication between the indenting officers and the printers.

2. Date of submission of indent.—The annual consolidated indent for such forms is due
with the Superintendent, Government Printing, Punjab by the 15th March and district and Sessions
Judges are enjoined to see that this date is strictly adhered to or the Press will not be responsible
for any delay that may occur in the supply of printed forms. District and Sessions Judges are
included in the list of officers entitled to indent direct for Departmental English forms,—vide
Appendix D of the Punjab Printing and Stationery manual (Punjab Financial Handbook No.4).

3. Instructions for preparing indents.—The indents will be prepared in duplicate in the
prescribed form. One copy will be retained by the Press and the other will be forwarded by the
Press to the High Court, at the close of the year for examination and record.

Indenting officers should so frame their annual indents as to obviate the necessity for a
large or frequent supplementary indents. Notice will be taken of any case in which these
instructions are found to have been neglected.

4. Chalan of forms dispatched.—When dispatching packages containing forms to
indenting officers, the Contractors will also forward by a letter-post a dispatch note or chalan. One
receipt of the package the officer concerned should examine the contents carefully, and, after
ascertaining that they are correct, return the chalan, duly signed, to the dispatching officer.

5. Periodical returns.—These instructions do not apply to periodical returns, forms for
which will be supplied by the High Court without indents, according to the Appendix II attached
to Chapter 23 of this Volume— “Reports and Returns”.

6. List of forms. Stocked forms.—Lists of the Civil and Criminal forms which have been
prescribed by the High Court for general use in the Punjab will be found in the Books of Civil and
Criminal Forms given in the Rules and Orders, Volumes VI A and B.

It will be observed that only such forms as are in most general use and are marked
“Stocked” will be supplied in print: the others must be prepared in manuscript whenever required.
Books containing complete sets of Civil and Criminal forms are supplied to each Court, and
should be kept carefully up to date.

71. Establishment and contingent bills.—Forms of establishment and contingent bills
will be supplied by the Accountant-General.

8. Civil Nazir to stock forms.—All civil forms will be stocked by the Civil Nazir whose
duty it will be to supply them to Subordinate Judges and Extra Assistant Commissioners when
required.

9. Universal forms and envelopes.—Instructions for the submission of indents for
universal forms and envelopes are contained in Chapter 3 of the Punjab Printing and Stationery
Manual and should be carefully followed by officers entitled to indent direct for such. (Appendix
D to the Manual).

Vernacular Forms for Judicial Purposes

10. Vernacular forms.—Vernacular forms used by subordinate Courts are obtained locally
by District Courts. Vernacular forms are to be printed on paper of the size of official petition
paper, or a quarter of a sheet of the standard jail paper, as may be most convenient. The paper


--- Page 812 ---
High Court Rules and Orders — Vol. IV 283
————
prescribed is “B” quality paper as supplied by the Jail Department.

11. Forms should be correctly prepared.—Care should be taken to adhere strictly to the
wording of judicial forms prescribed by law or by the orders of the High Court.

12.  Indents.—Officers who used to obtain their vernacular forms from the Central Jail,
Lahore, will in future submit their indents yearly to the Superintendent, Government Printing,
Punjab, Lahore, by the 15th April of each year at latest, so as to enable that officer to comply with
all indents in proper time. In preparing the indent care should be taken to form a proper estimate of
the probable requirements for the year, so as to avoid the necessity of submitting supplementary
indents.

PART B - PRINTING

1. Lithographed forms.—All lithographic printing has, under the orders of the Punjab
Government, to be done, as far as possible, at the Central Jail Press at Lahore. Lithographed
forms, a revised list of which has been prepared by the Superintendent, Government Printing,
Punjab, and will be supplied to departments concerned, are to be obtained from the Jail Press on
indent to cover the annual requirements of each Department. Supplementary indents must be
avoided as far as possible.

2. Date of submission of indents.—The annual indent of Civil and Criminal Vernacular
forms from District and Sessions Judges, to cover the requirements of the District, is due with the
Superintendent, Government Printing, by the 15th April. This date must be strictly adhered to or
the Press will not be responsible for any delay that may occur in the supply of printed forms.

3. Printing at private press direct prohibited. —Unless Government has specially
permitted a deviation from the rule, no work must be sent direct to a private press. All indents for
printing of every description whether typographic or lithographic should be sent to the
Superintendent, Government Printing, Punjab, who will decide with regard to the state of work in
the various Government Presses whether to carry out the work himself or place it at a private
press. In the latter case he will pay the bill himself from the allotment for printing at private
presses or lithography, as the case may be.

4. Emergent printing.—Heads of Departments and District and Sessions Judges have
been delegated powers to sanction expenditure in emergent cases on account of printing —
typographic or lithographic — at a private press, to a limit of Rs. 10 in each case. These orders will
be paid for by the officers concerned but a duplicate copy of the bill, together with a voucher copy
of the work, should be forward to the Superintendent, Government Printing, Punjab, for
examination and record. Such expenditure should be charged to the head “56-Stationery and
Printing” Minor heads, “Printing at Private Presses” or “Lithography” and should not be met from
the contingent grant.

5. Complaints against Jail Press.—If the work supplied by the Jail Press proves
unsatisfactory or if it is not done promptly the fact should be reported to the Superintendent,
Government Printing, Punjab, and the High Court informed at the same time.


--- Page 813 ---
0/6/0(0/0/6/©/0/0/6/9/0/0/0/0/0/0
2
@
(2 [} LJ
=)
© fe p ¢ »\' ©
© Lo ol.
Sasa
. ©
® ON “4 y
© » (t/ \) NR | ©
a ONAY
0.9} @
© ©
© IN THE NAME OF ALLAH, ©
© MOST GRACIOUS
5) MOST MERCIFUL P=
£ @
0 SAA Amma ®lm In az _©
00060000000 00000


--- Page 814 ---
RULES AND ORDERS
OF THE
LAHORE HIGH COURT, LAHORE
VOLUME V
Relating to Proceedings in the High Court
(REVISED EDITION) 2005


--- Page 815 ---
Rules relating to proceedings in the High Court: made under
the Sanction and Approval of the Competent Authority.


--- Page 816 ---
ALL RIGHTS ARE RESERVED FOR
LAHORE HIGH COURT LAHORE
Printed By
Zephyr Publisher
1 st Floor, Computer Center,
3-Court Street, Lower Mall, Lahore.

Ph: 042-7322497, 7320738, Fax: 042-7213980


--- Page 817 ---
Printed and Published
under the guidance of:
Hon'ble Mr. Justice Iftikhar Husain Chaudhry.
Chief Justice
Lahore High Court Lahore


--- Page 818 ---
Hon'ble Judges of the, Lahore High Court, Lahore.

Sr. No. Name of Hon,ble Judge.

I
[vei me a |
I eo
[en A


--- Page 819 ---


--- Page 820 ---
Hon,ble Members of the Administration Committee.
Mr Justice Iftikhar Hussain Chaudha
LL] Chief Justice
Mr. Justice Ch. Ijaz Ahmad
Mr. Justice Syed Jamshed Ali
Mr. Justice Khawaja Muhammad Sharif
Mr. Justice Sayed Zahid Hussain
6 | Mr. Justice Mian Muhammad Najum-uz-Zaman
Mr. Justice Mian Sagib Nisar

Hon,ble Members of the Rule Committee.

Mr. Justice Ch. [jaz Ahmad
Mr. Justice Syed Jamshed Ali
Mr. Justice Sayed Zahid Hussain

Register

Mr. Dost Muhammad Malik

Compiled & edited by:

Legislation Wing


--- Page 821 ---
T ABLE OF CONTENTS
CHAPTER - 1 JUDICIAL BUSINESS
Part A (a) The presentation and reception of appeals and 1
applications for review and revision.
(b) The presentation of petitions for revision under
sections 435 and 439 of the Code of Criminal
Procedure.
Part B The reception of pauper appeals. 8
Part C Applications under Order XXII, Code of Civil Procedure. 9
Part D The representation of minors and persons of unsound mind. 16
Part E The making and filing of affidavits in the High Court. 17
Part F Processes issued by the High Court in the exercise of its jurisdiction. 19
Part G Lahore High Court (Establishment of Benches) Rules, 1981. 20
CHAPTER -2 PREP ARA TION OF PAPER BOOK AND RECORDS.
Part A The preparation of printed records in First Appeals 25
Part B The printing of paper-books in Second Appeals and 32
Revisions.
Part C Preparation of paper-books in Intra Court Appeals. 34
Part D Preparation of paper-books in Custom/Usage Cases. 35
[Omitted].
Part E The translation of certain vernacular documents presented 36
to the High Court.
CHAPTER - 3 JURISDICTION
Part A Rules regulating the practice of the High Court in the 37
hearing of causes and other matters.
Part B Jurisdiction of a Single Judge and of Benches of the Court. 40
Part C Powers delegated to the Registrar for the disposal of 42
certain judicial matters.
Part D Appeals from decrees in Commercial Causes. 45


--- Page 822 ---
CHAPTER - 4 SPECIAL PROCEDURE.
Part I (Criminal)
Part A Special rules of procedure in criminal cases. 46
Part B Rules regarding the summoning and empanelling of jurors. 48
[Omitted].
Part C Subsistence and travelling allowance to complainants and 49
witnesses attending trials before the High Court.
Part D Rules of procedure in cases under section 374 of the Code 51
of Criminal Procedure.
Part E Rules regarding legal assistance to persons charged with 53
capital offences in the High Court.
Part F Rules framed under section 491 (2) of the Code of 55
Criminal Procedure. 1898. to regulate procedure in cases
under section 491.
Part II (Civil)
Part G Special rules of procedure in original civil cases. 60
Part H Rules of procedure in appeals. 62
Part I Rules framed by the High Court of West Pakistan Lahore. 66
regarding the grant of certificate under Article 159 (C) of
the Constitution of the Islamic Republic of Pakistan.
[Omitted]
Part J Rules for the issue of orders directions under Articles 199 67
and 202 Constitution of the Islamic Republic of Pakistan.
1973 and Clause 27 of the Letters Patent.
Part I Habeas Corpus Applications.
Part II Constitutional Remedies.
Part III Miscellaneous.
Part K Destitute Litigant Fund Rules. 1974. 78
CHAPTER - 5 RECORDS - THEIR INSPECTION,
GRANT OF COPIES AND DESTRIICTION, ETC.
Part A The inspection of records. 80
COPY BRANCH RULES. 83
Part B The grant of copies and translation of records 98


--- Page 823 ---
Part C The destruction of records. 103
Part D Rules regarding inspection, supply of copies. Protection 122
and privilege of documents relating to the special official
receiver. in the Punjab Province.
Appendix 124
CHAPTER - 6 LEGAL PRACTITIONERS
Part A Legal Practitioners’ misconduct. 126
Part B Powers and duties of Advocates. 127
Part C The suspension and dismissal of Advocates. 129
[Omitted.]
Part D The admission of Pleaders. 130
[Omitted.]
Part E Powers and duties of Pleaders and Mukhtars. 131
[Omitted.]
Part F The enrolment and training of, and renewal of certificates 132
by, Pleaders and Mukhtars,
[ Omitted.]
Part G The suspension and dismissal of Pleaders and Mukhtars. 133
[ Omitted.]
Part H Filing of Powers of Attorney by Advocates. 134
Part I Fees of counsel. 135
Part J Clerks of Legal Practitioners. 141
CHAPTER -7 RULES UNDER SPECIAL ACTS.
Part A (a) Rules to regulate the procedure in the case of 144
applications to set aside orders of forfeiture
passed by the Provincial Government under
section 99-A of the Code of Criminal Procedure
made by High Court under section 99-F.
(b) Rules to regulate the procedure in the case of 147
applications to set aside orders for the deposit of
security under section 3(3) or 7(3) or of
forfeiture under section 4.6.8.1 0, 12( 2) or 19
of the Indian Press (Emergency Powers) Act. 1931.
[Omitted.)


--- Page 824 ---
Part B Rules regarding applications under section 136 of the 148
Income Tax Ordinance, 1979.

Part C (a) Rules under section 1 (4), Indian and Colonial 150
Divorce Jurisdiction Act, 1926---[made by the Secretary of State in
Council for India. with the concurrence of the Lord
Chancellor, under the Indian and Colonial Divorce
Jurisdiction Act, 1926 (16 and 17 GEO. 5).]

(b) Powers delegated to the Registrar under the Indian and
Colonial Divorce Jurisdiction Act. 1926.
[Omitted].

Part D Rules made by the High Court under the powers conferred 151
by section 246 of the Indian Companies Act, 1913,
concerning the mode of proceedings to be had for winding
up a company in the High Court.

[Omitted].

Part E Rules made by the High Court under section 77 of the 152
Trade Marks Act, V of 1940, (published in Punjab
Gazette, Part III, dated the 10th August 1945, as corrected
by corrigendum No .21 O-R/XVI -A -96, dated the 12"

September 1945, published in Part III, dated the 14th
September 1945, and in the Gazette of India, Part I-A,
dated the 1st September 1945. as corrected by corrigendum
No.F.-4(8)/45- Genl., dated the 3rd October 1945,
published in Part II-A, dated the 13th October 1945).

Part F Rules made by the High Court under Clause 27 of 154
the Letters Patent to regulate proceedings of applications and
references under sections 59-A and 59-8 of the Estate Duty
Act-Act X of 1950 as inserted by Act No. XV of 1953

[Omitted).

CHAPTER-8 PRIVY COUNCIL CASES 155
[Omitted].

CHAPTER-9 FEDERAL COURT APPEALS 156
[Omitted].


--- Page 825 ---
CHAPTER-10 MISCELLANEOUS.
Part A Rules for the disposal of Executive and 157
Administrative business.
Part B Procedure for making rules under Part X of the Code 162
of Civil Procedure.
Appendix.
Letters Patent constituting the Lahore High Court 163


--- Page 826 ---
Key to the symbols used in Volume V

* Substituted vide Lahore High Court Notification No.436/Rules ILD.4(V).
Dated 6-12-2000

** Added vide Lahore High Court Notification ibid,

xk Omitted vide Lahore High Court Notification ibid,

*o1 Substituted vide Lahore High Court Notification NO.94/Rules I1.D.4(V).
Dated 18-04-2001.

#01 Added vide Lahore High Court Notification ibid.

*xx01 Omitted vide Lahore High Court Notification ibid.

warn] Substituted vide Lahore High Court Notification No. 295
Dated 20-06-2002.

Note: For original text and earlier amendments therein, the previous
edition(s) of the volume may be consulted.


--- Page 827 ---
Explanation: The words, appearing in the rules as "the
Deputy Registrar", mean the Deputy Registrar (Judicial)
and include the Additional Registrar (Judicial) as well.


--- Page 828 ---
1
CHAPTER 1
Judicial Business
PART A (a) THE PRESENTATION AND RECEPTION OF APPEALS,
REVISIONS, APPLICATIONS FOR REVIEW AND OTHER
PETITIONS.
1. (a) All judicial matters to be brought before the Court shall:

(i) be in a specific form prescribed by the High Court in the
rules;

(ii) be drawn up in the manner prescribed by law;

(iif) be signed by the party or his counsel, however, pleadings
in the original causes be necessarily signed by the party;

(iv) be properly stamped according to law;

(v) specify the law under which it lies;

(vi) be presented within the time limit prescribed by law, and, if
filed beyond time, be accompanied by an application for
condonation of delay;

(vii) be placed in the prescribed folders except in the case of
Misc. application arising in a pending matter;

(viii) be accompanied by a photocopy of the National Identity
Card of the petitioner / applicant/ appellant;**

(ix) be accompanied by a certificate to the effect that as per
instructions of the petitioner/ applicant / appellant no such
petition/application/appeal has earlier been filed in the High
Court in this matter.

(b) All judicial matters not intended to be taken up as urgent shall be
deposited in the petition box kept outside the room of the
Institution Section between the working hours as may be
prescribed from time to time.

(c) (i) All judicial matters intended to be taken up urgently the
next day shall be marked “Urgent” and deposited in the
petition box kept outside the room of the Institution Section
before 11.00 a.m.

In case a litigant is unable to deposit an urgent matter
before 11.00 a.m. or if he wants it to be heard the same
day, he may approach the Deputy Registrar (Judicial) for


--- Page 829 ---
2
the purpose who will look into the urgency and fix the
matter for the same day or the next day, or direct the same
to be fixed in motion.

(ii) An order passed by the Deputy Registrar (Judicial) not
treating the matter as urgent may be challenged before the
nominated Judge on administrative side whose decision in
the matter shall be final.

(d) The Chief Justice or in his absence the most senior Judge
available at Lahore may, in his discretion, entertain at his
residence an application requiring immediate orders at a
reasonable hour.

(e) Petitions sent by litigants through post for taking judicial action
shall not be entertained but returned per bearing post.

(f) Every memorandum of appeal shall be accompanied by
copies of decree and the judgment as prescribed by Order XLI
rule 1 of the Civil Procedure Code, 1908. In the case of
second appeals, in addition to the documents prescribed by
Order XLI rule 1 of the said Code, the memorandum shall be
accompanied by a copy of the judgment unless the appellate
Court dispenses therewith.**

2. + Omitted].

3. ** [Omitted].

4. Every Intra Court Appeal to the High Court under the

Law Reforms Ordinance, 1972 from a judgment of a Judge
sitting singly shall be presented within 20 days from the date of
judgment appealed from, unless the admitting Bench in its
discretion, for good cause shown, in writing, grants further
time.
In an Intra Court Appeal the memorandum of appeal need not
be accompanied by a copy of decree, order or judgment
appealed from. The period of limitation prescribed in this rule
shall be computed in accordance with the provisions of section
12 of the Limitation Act, 1908.

5. *** [Omitted].

6. A petition to the High Court to exercise the powers conferred
by section 115 of Civil Procedure Code shall specify the
particular ground on which the aid of the High Court is
invoked.—

(a) if the ground be that the court which decided the case
exercised a jurisdiction not vested in it by law, the petition shall
set out clearly the particular exercise of jurisdiction complained
of;

(b) if it be that the court which decided the case failed to exercise
a jurisdiction so vested, the jurisdiction which ought, in the


--- Page 830 ---
3
petitioner's opinion, to have, and has not been exercised shall be
clearly set out;

(c) if it be that the court acted in the exercise of its jurisdiction with
material irregularities the particular irregularity or irregularity
complained of shall be similarly set out.

7. (i) Every such petition shall be stamped as required by law and
shall be accompanied by certified copies of the pleadings and
the documents which are necessary to support the pleas taken
and the relief sought in the petition, unless the Court on
sufficient cause shown orders otherwise, as well as a copy of
the decree or order in respect of which such application is
made and by a copy of the judgment upon which such decree
is founded.

(ii) In the case of petition for revision of the decree or order of an
appellate court, a certified copy of the judgment or order of the
court of first instance shall also be filed.

(iii). Every such petition shall be made within ninety days of the
decision of the subordinate court which shall provide a copy of
such decision within three days thereof and the High Court
shall dispose of such petition within three months without
calling for the record of the subordinate court.”

8. A petition to exercise the power conferred by section 25 of the
Provincial Small Cause Courts Act, 1887, shall specify in what
particular the decree or order of the Small Cause Court is not in
accordance with law.

9. (i) The Deputy Registrar (Judicial) is authorized to return
memorandum of any suit, appeal, or petition, or application,
etc, -

a) if it is not maintainable under any law; or

b) if it is not properly constituted; or

c) if it contains scandalous or objectionable
language or material; or

d) if it is not drawn up in conformity with the
foregoing directions; or


--- Page 831 ---
4
e) for amendment, making up of the deficiency or for
filing requisite documents, within the time to be
specified in the Objection Memorandum Appendix I(a),
1(b) & I(c).

(ii) The order of the Deputy Registrar (Judicial) returning the
memorandum of any suit, appeal, petition or application may
be challenged before the Chief Justice or Judge nominated by
the Chief Justice on administrative side whose decision shall
be final and shall not be assailed in any other proceeding
before the High Court.

9-A.  Alist of petitions, appeals, etc., ordered to be returned shall be notified
on the Notice Board and petitions, appeals, etc., not received back
within seven days of the publication of the list shall be placed before a
Judge of the High Court for orders on a date to be notified by including
such petition in a motion cause list. It is made clear that any delay in
placing such petition before the Court or issuing the list shall not
furnish any justification for non-receipt of the returned petition in time
and non-compliance of the objection taken within time specified by
Deputy Registrar (Judicial).*

10. Every application for review of a judgment or order of a Division
Bench, or of a Single Bench of the High Court presented by an
Advocate shall be signed by him, and he shall certify that the grounds
contained therein are good and sufficient grounds for the review
sought. No Advocate shall be heard in support of an application for
review of any such judgment or order unless and until he has certified
in the manner above prescribed the grounds already taken or any
amended grounds of application.

11. No petition, memorandum of appeal or other document, which
ought to bear a stamp under the Court Fees Act, 1870, shall be
received in the Court until it is properly stamped.

12. The Chief Justice has been pleased to declare that the Registrar of
the High Court at the Principal Seat and the Additional Registrars of
the Rawalpindi, Multan and Bahawalpur Benches shall be the Taxing
Officers within the meaning of section 5 of the Court Fees Act, 1870.
Note: For delegation of powers to the Additional Registrars see
Notification No 222-Gaz-I/V. A (17), dated the 25" of October 1989.

13. Attention is drawn to the provisions of sections 4 and 28 of the Court Fees

Act, and it must be understood in connection with section 5 of the
Limitation Act that an improperly stamped document even


--- Page 832 ---
5
though received, filed or used in the Court remains invalid, unless it is
proved to the satisfaction of the Court that it was so filed or used
through mistake or inadvertence, and time is extended for making up
the deficiency in the Court fee.*

14. The Deputy Registrar is authorized to examine and impound under
section 33 (2) (b) of the Stamp Act, 1899, any instrument not duly
stamped.*

Part A (b) THE PRESENTATION OF PETITIONS FOR REVISION
UNDER SECTIONS 435 AND 439 OF THE CODE OF
CRIMINAL PROCEDURE.*01

1. Every petition for revision under sections 435 and 439 of Criminal
Procedure Code shall state:

(i) that no petition under the aforementioned sections has
been moved before the Court of Sessions.

(ii) the reason for not moving the Court of Sessions, and other
petitions connected with judicial business of the Court shall be
presented by litigants or their Advocates by depositing them in
the petition box of the Court outside the room of the Institution
Section between the working hours as may be prescribed
from time to time.

Appeals, applications, etc., accompanied by a petition
to treat the same as urgent shall, however, be presented
personally to the Reader to the Deputy Registrar (Judicial) on
any working day before 11.00 a.m. but may in exceptional
circumstances be received not later than 12 noon.

(iii) Appeal under section 410, Cr.P.C. shall be filed within the
period of limitation prescribed by law and shall be
accompanied by a certified copy of the impugned judgment of
the trial court.

(iv) Application made by the complainant under section 417 (2),
Cr.P.C. shall be filed within sixty days along with the certified
copies of the complaint and the impugned judgment and shall
be placed before a Single Bench. In case of acceptance of the
application by the Single Bench it shall be converted into
appeal and shall be placed before a Division Bench.

(v) Appeal under section 417(2-A), Cr. P.C. shall be filed by an
aggrieved person against the order of acquittal within thirty
days and shall be accompanied by the certified copies of the
F.L.R. and the impugned judgment. This appeal shall be


--- Page 833 ---
6
placed before a Division Bench in motion and further action taken
in accordance with the orders passed by the Division Bench. *01

1-A. With reference to section 439 (5), Criminal Procedure Code,
the Deputy Registrar will not receive any petition for revision
of an order of acquittal unless it is accompanied by a copy of
an order of the Magistrate of the district, refusing to move the
Provincial Government to appeal under section 417, Criminal
Procedure Code.

2. As regards petitions under section 435 and section 439,
Criminal Procedure Code, the Deputy Registrar will not
receive petitions for revision of orders of original courts in
non-appealable cases, unless the applicant files with his
petition a copy of the order of the Sessions Judge to show
that he has applied to him and his petition has been refused.
The Sessions Judge can release a prisoner on bail or
suspend a sentence pending a reference to the High Court.

3. Copies of all bail applications received in the High Court
relating to criminal cases pending in lower courts when bail
has already been refused by the lower courts shall be

supplied to the Advocate General by the Deputy Registrar to
enable him to appear, if desired, on behalf of the State
provided that hearing of any particular case by the Judge to
whom it is assigned is not delayed by this procedure.

3-A. Every application for bail shall be accompanied by the copy of
F.LR. and the orders of lower courts, if any, unless the Judge
specifically dispenses therewith. *01

4. Petition for transfer or for revision of an interlocutory order in a
pending criminal case shall be refused by the Deputy Registrar
unless accompanied by attested copies of the documents
relied on by the petitioner. If admitted, the records should not
be sent for unless a Judge specifically so orders.

5. Petitions for transfer of cases shall ipso facto be treated and
dealt with as urgent petitions.

6. Notice of the hearing of urgent petitions shall not be given
individually to the petitioner or his counsel but a list of such
petitions shall be hung up for the purpose on the notice board
outside the Deputy Registrar's room and / or displayed in
electronic media on the day


--- Page 834 ---
7
preceding the date fixed for the hearing of these petitions
giving the name of the Judge by whom the petition will be
heard.

7. In petitions for transfer of cases under section 526,
Criminal Procedure Code, filed in the High Court, the Sessions
Judge shall, without fail, return all notices received by him from
the High Court, whether for himself or for parties, after service,
within one week from the date of their receipt.

8. The Sessions Judge shall, without fail, also submit,
within one week from the date of receipt of the High Court
letter, all reports or explanations called for by the High Court
from himself or the Magistrate concerned with regard to
allegations contained in the petitions for transfer or affidavit,
copy whereof will accompany the said letter.

9. In petitions under section 439, Criminal Procedure Code,
against the order of a Magistrate, in cases tried summarily and
in which there are no records except entries in the Register of
Summary Trials (Criminal Register No. XVII), certified copies
of the relevant entries in the register shall be called for, instead
of the register unless otherwise directed by the Court.


--- Page 835 ---
8
PARTB THE RECEPTION OF PAUPER APPEALS.

1. No application for leave to appeal as a pauper shall be received
unless it is accompanied by a memorandum of appeal nor shall a
memorandum of appeal purporting to be on behalf of a pauper be
received unless it is accompanied by an application for leave to
appeal as a pauper.

2. (a) No such application or memorandum shall be received from

any person other than the alleged pauper, unless it appears,
on the face of the application, that the alleged pauper is a
person who is exempt, under section 132 or section 133 of the
Code of Civil Procedure, from personal appearance in Court .
In the latter case the application or memorandum shall not be
received if presented by any person other than an agent duly
authorized, who is in a position to answer all material
questions relating to the application, and who is willing to be
examined in the same manner as the party represented by him
might have been examined, had such party attended in
person.

(b) Every such application, if presented by an agent, shall
state, on the face thereof, that the applicant is a person
exempted from personal appearance in Court under the
provisions of section 132 or section 133 of the Code of Civil
Procedure, and shall not be received unless it contains such
statement.

3. When an application or memorandum of appeal is one that cannot be
received under the foregoing directions, the Deputy Registrar shall
record, or cause to be recorded thereon, the name of the person
presenting such application or memorandum, the date of its
presentation, and an order returning the same for due presentation
with the reason for such order, and shall sign and date such order with
his own hand.


--- Page 836 ---
9
PART C APPLICATIONS UNDER ORDER XXII, CODE OF CIVIL PROCEDURE.
(i) Legal representatives of deceased parties and appeals by
persons who were not parties to the decree or order.

1. Whenever a party to a decree or order, which is appealable to
the High Court, desires to appeal therefrom and to make as a
respondent to his appeal the legal representative of a person who,
having been a party to such decree or order, has died after the date of
such decree or order, and who, if alive, would be a necessary party as
a respondent to such appeal, and whose legal representative has not
as such been made a party to the decree or order, or to subsequent
proceedings thereunder or thereon, the party so desiring to appeal
may present to the High Court for admission a memorandum of
appeal with the name of such legal representative mentioned therein
as such as that of a respondent if at the time when he presents such
memorandum of appeal for admission, he along with such
memorandum of appeal, presents an application for leave to make
such legal representative as such a party as a respondent to his
appeal, and, except as hereinafter provided, an affidavit stating such
facts as may be necessary in support of his application: Provided
always that a Judge of the High Court may, by an order under his
hand, allow in his discretion a reasonable time in that behalf for the
presentation of such affidavit, if it appears to him that the applicant
could not by the exercise of due diligence have procured such affidavit
in time for presentation along with the memorandum of appeal.

2. Whenever by a decree or order which is appealable to the High
Court the interest of-

(a) a beneficiary in property which at the date of such decree or
order was vested in or in the possession of a trustee, an
executor, an administrator, or a receiver or manager appointed
by a court who as such was a party to such decree or order, or

(b) a legal representative as such of a deceased party to such
decree or order, or

(c) an assignee of a party to such decree or order by assignment
subsequent to the date of such decree or order, or


--- Page 837 ---
10
(d) a person whose interest arose after the date of such decree or order by
reason of any creation or devolution of interest, by, through, or
from any party to such decree or order is affected,
and such beneficiary, legal representative, assignee, or person was
not or has not been made a party to such decree or order or to
proceedings thereunder or thereon, and desires to present to the High
Court for admission a memorandum of appeal from such decree or
order, he may name himself therein as an appellant if at the time when
he presents such memorandum of appeal for admission he along with
such memorandum of appeal presents an application for leave to
make himself an appellant, and, except as hereinafter provided, an
affidavit stating such facts as may be necessary in support of his
application:

Provided always that a Judge of the High Court may, by an
order under his hand, allow in his discretion a reasonable time in that
behalf for the presentation of such an affidavit, if it appears to him that
the applicant could not by the exercise of due diligence have procured
such affidavit in time for presentation along with the memorandum of
appeal.

3. Whenever in any suit or appeal from the decree or order, in which an
appeal may be preferred to the High Court, a party has, before the
appealable decree or order in such suit or appeal has been made, died,
and the name of such deceased party appears in such decree or order
as that of a party thereto, and his representative has not been brought
upon the record, and such deceased party would, if alive, be a
necessary party to an appeal to the High Court from such decree or
order, and any party to such decree or order, or the legal
representative of any such party, having a right of appeal from such
decree or order, desires to appeal from such decree or order, and to
make the legal representative of such deceased party a party to the
appeal, he may present to the High Court for admission a
memorandum of appeal with the name of such legal representative
mentioned therein as a party to the appeal, if at the time when he
presents such memorandum of appeal for admission he along with
such memorandum of appeal presents an application for leave to make
such legal representative a party to the appeal, and, except as
hereinafter provided, an affidavit showing that he did not know, before
the decree or order from which he desires to appeal was made, that
such deceased party had died, or that he had no reasonable
opportunity of informing the Court which made the decree or order,
before such decree or order was made, that such deceased party was
dead, and stating such other facts as may be necessary in support of
his application: Provided that a Judge of the High Court may, by an
order under his hand, allow in his discretion


--- Page 838 ---
11

a reasonable time in that behalf for the presentation of such affidavit, if it

appears to him that the applicant could not by the exercise of due diligence

have procured such affidavit in time for presentation along with the
memorandum of appeal.

4. Whenever after a memorandum of appeal has been presented
to the High Court, any appellant or any party interested in the
maintenance of any objection filed in the appeal under Order XLI rule
22 or 26 of the Code of Civil Procedure first ascertains that a person,
whose name appears in the memorandum of appeal as that of a party
to the appeal, and who, if alive, would be a necessary party to such
appeal or objection, had died before the memorandum of appeal was
presented to the High Court or admitted, such appellant or party so
interested as aforesaid may, but subject to the law of limitation, apply
for an order that the memorandum of appeal be amended by
substituting for the person, who had so died as aforesaid, his legal
representative, if at the time when he presents such application, he
along with such application, except as hereinafter provided, presents
for filing an affidavit showing that such application is made with all
reasonable diligence after the fact of the death of such person first
came to the knowledge of such applicant or the agent, if any, acting
on his behalf in the litigation: Provided that a Judge of the High Court
may, by an order under his hand, allow in his discretion a reasonable
time in that behalf for the presentation of such affidavit, if it appears to
him that the applicant would not by the exercise of due diligence have
procured such affidavit in time for presentation along with application.

4-A. (1) In every appeal of the nature referred to in Order XXII rule 3 of the

Code of Civil Procedure, the memorandum of appeal shall be

accompanied by a statement giving:

(a) the names and addresses of the persons who, in the
event of the death of the appellant, may be made a party as
his legal representatives; and

(b) the name and address of the person who, in the event of
the death of the appellant, shall intimate such fact to the Court,
furnish the Court with the names, particulars and addresses of
the legal representatives of the appellant and make an
application for the legal representatives to be made a party.

2) (a) An appellant may at any time file in the Court an amended list
of his presumptive legal representatives; and


--- Page 839 ---
12
(b) nominate another person, in the place of the person
nominated under clause (b) of sub-rule (1), for the purposes of
that clause.

3) A nomination made under clause (b) of sub-rule (1)
shall, unless varied under clause (b) of sub-rule (2), remain in
force throughout the pendency of the appeal and any
proceedings arising therefrom, including appeal and review.

(4) If the appellant has filed the aforesaid statement in the suit
giving rise to the appeal it shall stand superseded by the
statement filed under this rule.**

4-B. (1) In every appeal of the nature referred to in Order XXII rule 4 of
the Code of Civil Procedure the respondent shall by the date,
Farzi or actual, specified in the notice of the appeal served on
him, file a statement giving:

(@) the names and addresses of the persons who in the
event of the death of the respondent, may be made a
party as his legal representatives; and

(b) the name and address of the person who, in the event
of the death of the respondent , shall intimate such fact
to the Court, furnish the Court with the names, particulars
and addresses of the legal representatives of the
respondent and make an application for the legal
representatives to be made a party.

2) (a) A respondent may at any time file in the Court an

amended list of his presumptive legal representatives; and

(b) nominate another person in the place of the person
nominated under clause (b) of sub-rule (1), for the
purposes of that clause.

3) A nomination made under clause (b) of sub-rule (1) shall,
unless varied under clause (b) of sub-rule (2), remain in force
throughout the pendency of the appeal and any proceedings
arising therefrom, including appeal or review.

4) If the respondent has filed the aforesaid statement in the
suit giving rise to the appeal, it shall stand superseded by the
statement filed under this rule.

(5) Notice of appeal issued to the respondent shall contain
direction requiring him to file the statement referred to in sub-
rule (1) by the date specified in the notice.**

(ii) General Rules as to Suits and Appeals.
5. Every application-

(a) under Order XXII rules 3 (1) and 11 of the Code of Civil

Procedure, by a person claiming to be legal representative of


--- Page 840 ---
13
deceased plaintiff or appellant to enter his name on the
record in place of the deceased party;

(b) under Order XXII rules 4 and 11 of the Code of Civil
Procedure, to make the legal representative of a deceased
defendant or respondent a party in place of the deceased; and

(c) under the second clause of Order XXII rule 3 of the Code of
Civil Procedure, by a defendant or respondent;

shall, in addition to any particulars required by law, state approximately
the date of the death of the deceased party.

6. Every application under Order XXII rule 9 (read with rule 11) of the Code of
Civil Procedure, by a person claiming to be the legal representative of a
deceased party, or the assignee or the receiver of the insolvent plaintiff or
appellant for an order to set aside any order made or judgment passed in
his absence shall state the cause which prevented him from continuing or
defending the suit or appeal, as the case may be.*

7. Every application of the kind specified in rules 5 and 6 of these rules and
every application under Order XXII rule 10 of the Code of Civil
Procedure, to make the petitioner or some other person an additional or
substituted party in a suit or appeal, shall, as to the allegations of fact
contained in such application, be verified by affidavit.

8. Every application under Order XXII of the Code of Civil Procedure shall
ordinarily be presented to the Deputy Registrar, who shall cause the date
of presentation to be entered thereon.

9. The Deputy Registrar shall examine the application, and, if it does not
satisfy the requirements of the Code or of these rules in that behalf, may
return it to the person presenting it, for amendment and re-presentation
within a time to be noted on such application under his signature, or may
refer the application to a Judge for orders.


--- Page 841 ---
14

10. Any such application may be presented to a Judge or to a Bench (
as the case may be) on the date fixed for the hearing of the case; but
unless sufficient cause be shown for the application not having been
presented in the ordinary course to the Deputy Registrar, before such
hearing, the applicant will become liable to pay the costs of any
adjournment or postponement caused by the omission to present the
application to the Deputy Registrar.

11. When an application to have the name of the legal representative of a
deceased party, or the name of an additional or substituted party,
brought on the record, or to have the name of a party struck off the
record, is granted by order of a Judge or Bench (as the case may be),

the Deputy Registrar shall cause the record of the proceedings in the
High Court to be amended in conformity with such order.

12. Every person admitted on the record as the legal representative of
a deceased plaintiff, defendant, appellant or respondent, shall be
described as “the legal representative of A.B., deceased plaintiff’(or
defendant, appellant or respondent, as the case may be); and, similarly
in the case of an insolvent plaintiff, defendant, appellant, or
respondent.

(iii) Special Rule as to Suits.

13. Application under Order XXII of the Code of Civil Procedure, in
original suits, when presented to the Deputy Registrar, shall, subject
to rule 9 of these rules, be laid by him for orders before a Judge who
shall ordinarily be the Judge before whom the suit to which it relates is
pending.

(iv) Special Rules as to Appeals.

14. When an application of the kinds specified in rule 5 of these rules is
presented to the Deputy Registrar in relation to an appeal pending
before the Court, and is deemed by him sufficient, without or after
amendment, and the Deputy Registrar does not deem it necessary to
refer the application for the order of a Judge, he is authorized to make
an order granting the application “subject to all just exceptions” and to
cause the necessary amendments to be made in the memorandum of
parties’ names and notices to be issued to the


--- Page 842 ---
15
parties concerned to show cause on the date fixed for hearing the
appeal.

15. Every application under Order XXII of the Code of Civil Procedure, not
falling within rule 14 of these rules or not granted under that rule, shall
be laid before a Judge for orders.

(v) Rules as to proceedings other than Suits and Appeals.

16. (i) The foregoing rules shall apply to all proceedings of a civil

nature, other than suits or appeals, to which Order XXII of
the Code of Civil Procedure is applicable.

(ii) So far as possible, the provisions of the foregoing rule shall
also apply to proceedings in the constitutional petitions.


--- Page 843 ---
16
PART D THE REPRESENTATION OF MINORS AND PERSONS OF
UNSOUND MIND.

1. Whenever a Judge or Bench sees cause to appoint a next friend of a
minor plaintiff or appellant or a guardian in the suit or appeal of a minor
defendant or respondent, and an order to that effect is passed, the
Deputy Registrar shall cause the memorandum of parties’ names in the
suit or appeal to be amended accordingly.

2. In every appeal presented to the Deputy Registrar in which it appears
from the memorandum of appeal or the copies of the judgments filed
therewith, that the appellant or respondent or any of the appellants or
respondents is a minor, the Deputy Registrar shall cause a note to be
made on such appeal for the information and orders of the Judge or
Bench exercising jurisdiction in the appeal.

3. No notice in relation to an appeal shall be issued to any respondent
who, from the memorandum of appeal or the proceedings of the lower
courts, appears to be a minor, unless and until a guardian for such
minor has been appointed by an order of the Court or unless the issue
of such notice be authorized by the special order of a Judge.

4. The foregoing rules shall apply, so far as may be, to proceedings
in review of judgment or in revision and to proceedings of a civil nature
other than suits or appeals, to which Order XXXII of the Code of Civil
Procedure is applicable.

5. The foregoing rules relating to the representation of minors shall
apply, mutatis mutandis, to the representation of persons of unsound
mind, adjudged to be so under any law for the time being in force.

6. The foregoing rules are subject to the provisions of Order XXXII
rule 16 of the Code of Civil Procedure.

7. Nothing in the foregoing rules shall be deemed to require that
any order made thereunder shall be made or signed by more than one
Judge of the Court.


--- Page 844 ---
17
PARTE THE MAKING AND FILING OF AFFIDAVITS IN THE HIGH COURT.

1. Affidavits intended to be presented in the High Court in support
of any memorandum of appeal, cross-objection on appeal, application
for review or petition for revision or any other application or petition
under the Code of Civil Procedure, shall be drawn up and attested in
the manner prescribed for the Civil Courts of the Punjab by the rules
made by the High Court in that behalf, and be declared before some
Court or Magistrate or officer appointed to administer the oath to the
deponent.

2. When a memorandum of appeal, cross-objection on appeal,
application for review or petition for revision or any other application or
petition presented in a suit or appeal under the Code of Civil
Procedure, or in a proceeding to which section 141 of the Code
applies, contains an assertion of any fact or facts contrary to or
outside the record, or not supported by evidence already on the
record, such assertion shall be supported by one or more affidavits.

3. Such affidavit shall ordinarily be presented with the
memorandum of appeal, cross-objection, application or petition.

4. Any ground contained in any such memorandum of appeal,
cross- objection, application, or petition containing an assertion of fact
not supported by affidavit may on the hearing thereof be ordered, by
the Judge or Bench, to be struck out or amended summarily, unless
leave be granted to present an affidavit in support thereof.

5. Facts asserted by a party showing cause against any appeal,
application or petition supported by affidavit, shall likewise be
supported by affidavit, whether the facts asserted be in contradiction
of the facts asserted in support of the same or be fresh matter. Such
affidavits must ordinarily be presented before the date fixed for the
hearing but may with the permission of the Judge be presented at the
hearing.

6. When upon any application any evidence is to be given, such
evidence shall ordinarily be given by affidavit as provided in Order XIX
rule 2 of the Code of Civil Procedure, and not otherwise, unless by an
order of a Judge or Bench.


--- Page 845 ---
18
Explanation. - Evidence given in support of any of the following or similar
applications should be given by affidavit unless otherwise
ordered:-

(a) application to admit an appeal or application which is prima
facie barred by time;

(b) application to add parties or to substitute representatives of

parties;

(c) application to re-admit an appeal or application which has been
dismissed for default or to re-hear an appeal heard in the
absence of the respondent;

(d) application to transfer or withdraw a suit or appeal;

(e) application to stay execution of decree or order;

(f) application for security of costs; and

(g) application for leave to appeal in forma pauperis.

7. Affidavits intended to be used in any proceeding before the High
Court may be presented, unless otherwise directed, to the Judge or
Bench at the time when the proceeding is called on, or before such
time to the Deputy Registrar, who shall thereupon file them with the
proceeding after noting thereon the date of presentation.

8. Under the provisions of section 139(b) of the Code of Civil
Procedure and section 539 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, certain
ministerial officers of the High Court are appointed from time to time
by the High Court to administer oaths and affirmations to deponents of
affidavits required to be presented in the High Court. The rules and
instructions contained in Chapter 12,Parts A and B, High Court Rules
and Orders, Volume IV, will be followed in all respects. The names of
the ministerial officers so appointed in the High Court from time to time
are communicated to the High Court Bar.


--- Page 846 ---
19
PART F PROCESSES ISSUED BY THE HIGH COURT IN THE EXERCISE OF
ITS JURISDICTION.

1. A fee of rupees ten in court-fee labels shall, subject to rules in
Chapter 5-B, High Court Rules and Orders, Volume IV, be charged
for each summon, notice or other process issued by the Court.
Whenever there is default in payment of process fee, printing charges
or similar dues, the official concerned may without reference to the
Deputy Registrar or any other officer place the case before the
Registrar after informing the Advocate concerned of the date and the
Registrar may permit the deposit of the fee, charges or other dues, as
the case may be, within a further period of seven days. In the event of
further default, the case shall be placed before the Court for orders.
However, the office may accept the fee, charges or dues before the
case is actually placed before the Registrar.*


--- Page 847 ---
20
PART G LAHORE HIGH COURT (ESTABLISHMENT OF BENCHES)
RULES, 1981.

In exercise of the powers conferred by Clause (3) of Article 7 of the
Provisional Constitution Order, 1981 (CMLA Order No.1 of 1981), the Governor of
the Punjab, in consultation with the Chief Justice of the Lahore High Court, was
pleased to make the following rules, vide Notification No. SO (CAB)-1I-1-17/81 dated
16" July, 1981:-

1. (1) These rules may be called the Lahore High Court (Establishment

of Benches) Rules, 1981.
(2) They shall come into force at once.

2. In these rules, unless the context otherwise requires-

(a) “Bench” means a Bench established under clause (3) or
clause (4) of Article 7 of the Order;

(b) “Chief Justice” means the Chief Justice of the
Lahore High Court and includes the Judge for the time
being acting as Chief Justice of the Lahore High Court;

(c) “Judge” means a Judge of the Lahore High Court
and includes the Chief Justice, Acting Chief Justice, or
Additional Judge of the Lahore High Court ;and

(d) “Order” means the Provisional Constitution Order,
1981 (CMLA Order 1 of 1981).

3. All matters arising within the area assigned to a Bench shall be filed
before and disposed of by that Bench, unless otherwise directed by the
Chief Justice.

4. There shall be established a “Registry” of the High Court at each Bench
consisting of an Additional Registrar and such other officers and servants
of the High Court as the Chief Justice may appoint to receive
proceedings to be heard before that Bench.

5. The Chief Justice may transfer any proceedings pending at the Principal
Seat of the Lahore High Court or a Bench to another Bench or the
Principal Seat of the Lahore High Court.

6. The Chief Justice may determine cases or class of cases which may be
disposed of at the Principal Seat or a Bench, as may be deemed
expedient.

7. If at any time it is found expedient for the efficient functioning of the
Principal Seat, the Benches or the Circuit Courts, the Chief Justice may
require any Judge to sit, for such period as may be determined by him, at
any Bench, Circuit Court or at the Principal Seat.


--- Page 848 ---
21
8. A Judge nominated by the Chief Justice under clause (5) of Article 7 of the
Order to sit at a Bench shall be entitled to the same allowances and
privileges as may be admissible to a Judge on transfer under clause (2) of
Article 10 of the Order.

9. The area assigned to each Bench shall be its Civil Division:

Provided that if in the interest of justice or efficient working of the Bench it
is considered necessary, the Chief Justice may with the prior approval of
the Governor make adjustments in the above areas.

10. The most Senior Judge for the time being at a Bench shall exercise such
powers of the Chief Justice as may be delegated to him by the Chief
Justice.

11. Without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing rules and subject to
the provisions of the Order, the Chief Justice may, from time to time, pass
such orders as may be considered necessary for efficient working of the
Benches.


--- Page 849 ---
22
Appendix | (a) ( Civil)
IN THE LAHORE HIGH COURT. LAHORE
OBJECTION MEMO ADVOCATE:
DIARY NO.
1 It is time barred by days
= Separate application under section § of the Limitation Act for condonation of delay
min be filed
3 Court fee is insufficient wo the extent of Rs.
4 Court fee 1s sufficient 1o the extent that it should be paid according to section 7 of
the Court Fees Act 1870, as amended by Punjab Finance Act of 1973
5 Certified copy of the judgment/decree order of the trial court to be filed
6 Certified copy of the judgmentdecree order under appealirevision to be filed
7 Prescribed form of the appeal to be filed filled *
8 Proper section of law in stay vacation of stay/dispensation/ I. A. 10 be quoted
9. Properly executed complete: fresh power of attorney to be filed
10 Properly attested affidavit to be filed (correct affidavit)
[}) Receipt of Rs.300/- advance printing charges to be filed as required by rule 8.
Chapter 2-A, High Court Rules and Orders, Volume-V +
12 Opening form duly filled is to be attached.
13 Entries in the opening form need correction/completion.
14 Correction cutting 10 be properly authenticated
15. Hw Appeal/Revision Application 1s competent
16 Meno of parties to be filed. *
17. I'he matter being DB. requires 143 copies of paper books 10 be supplied alongwith
3 file covers. **
8 A centificate that no Appeal/Revision/T A. in the matter was filed earlier be
appended
19 Impugned order to be lagged and page marked according 0 index/pages are not
marked
20 Receipt of Rs. 5 as advance typing charges in 1.C.A. to be appended.
3 Certified copies of pleadings and/or other documents have not heen filed *
2% Pages are not properly arranged
23 Please file better written typed copies of pages.
24 Please affix revenue stamp of 3.00/- rupees on cach non-judicial paper. pay court
fee of Rs. 2- on decree and 50 paisa on each sheet of certified copies. *
28% Fach better copy be certified as “compared with the original/certified copy and
found correct”
26 Lincertified copies of pages be feplaced with cerufied copies
27 Signature or code number of the counsel is wanting
Returned with objection’s at serial No(s) above
T'o be re-submitied after removal of these objections within days subject 10
lim#taton.*
DRR (CIVIL)
AR (Jud YD.R (Jud),


--- Page 850 ---
23
Appendix ih) (Wrin)
IN THE LAHORE HIGH COURT, LAHORE
OBJECTION MEMO ADVOCATE:
DIARY NO.
1 The court fee is msutficrent 10 the extent nf Rs. h
PD: Revenue stamps worth Rs.3.00 10 be paid tor each non-judicial paper
Fa: Signature or code number of leamed coursed is wanting.
4 Certified copy of the impugned ander 10 be tiled
=3 spare copies to be filed
6 All annexures and impugned order 10 be Tagged
1 Cenificate 10 the effect that no other petition (LCA. Review) of the same subject
matter was filed. should be appended.
8 List of books to be added *
9. Unveenified copies and dim ones to be replaced with bright hand-writterity ped ones.
10. Documents copies which are with pencil should be replaced with the ones in ink.
In. Documents/copies which are with pencil should be replaced with the ones in ink
2 CN approved file covers to be supplied.
13 Duly executed Power of Attorney to be filed.
14 Typed index to accompany 1he petition
15. Uncertified copies of annesures to be attested by learned counsel giving his name in
block letters,
16. Application to dispense with the production of certified copies of the impugned
order/annexures with necessary particulars 10 be filed.
17. Annexure(s) is ‘are insufficiently amped 10 the extent of Rs. J.
18. Names of respondents'contemners wanting since the present petition relates 10
contempt proceedings. *
19. Petition/ Appeal has not been signed by uni authorized person.
20, Cenificate to be appended 10 the etfect that the officer. impleaded by name. as
respondent has personal liabiliy
£2). An affidavit duly attested to be filed
& One writ petition is not competent, Separate writ petition of cach petitioner 10 be filed
E23. Writ petition is not arranged according to the office order index.
24. Certificate 10 be given to the effect thar 1.C A /Review is competent.
£25. Please fileitat Seat Hench.
26 Copies to be delivered to the office of Attorney General Advocate General *
27. Petition is not paged nor the annexures marked. ®
28. Writ petition cannot be entertained ugaimst private person.
29 Cenificate = compared with the orginal certified copy and found correct” to be given
on every better copy
30 Computer slip/Code number 10 be given
£31. Details of the annexures mentioned in the index be given Le. original. certified or
j uncertified.
3 Centified copies of annexures 10 be filed.
33 a = 3
3 SEER x ,
0 Returned with the objection’s at Serial No (3). above.
Tobe resubmitted after removing the objection within days.*
DR.R (WRIT)
ARLudl) DR (ud).


--- Page 851 ---
24
Appendix | (¢) (Criminal)
IN THE LAHORE HIGH COURT, LAHORE

OBJECTION MEMO ADVOCATE:

DIARY NO.

1 Revenue stamps of Rs.3.00 10 be paid for cach non-judicial paper

x3 Signature of the counsel of the appellant’ petitioner is wanting,

3. The provision under which the appeal/petition has been filed be mentioned/corrected.

3A. Documentsicopies which are with pencil should be replaced with thie ones im ink

+ Approved file cover be filed. wo £

$ Atfidavit 1s non atested appended.

6 Appealpetition and cenified copies of annesures we nor properly
indexed’ paged marked, «i

7 Certificate 10 be furnished as 10 whether any Appeal Petition on the subject was
previoushy filed. «uo

8. No indication of urgency on the form.

9. ‘There should be separate application for cach prayer.

10. Copy of AppealPetition has not been delivered 10 the office of the Anomey
General’ Advocate General

1" The Appeal/Petition is barred by days.

12. Cenilied copy of’ be filed. «ui

13, Correct number of referred case/(s) has not been given.

14, Memorandum of parties” names has not been filed. «

15. Petition comaining over-writing. addition and deletion is not entertained, Kindly file
fairly drafted petition.

16. Appeal/Revision is not competent.

17. Power of Attorney has not been attached.

18. Petition should be signed by a persan competent 10 do so.

19. Case relates to E Seat’Bench.

20. Please specify where the petitioner/appellant 1s confined/detained

i spare copies be filed. 1

22. Prescribed form of revision‘appeal be filed. =

23, Appeal/petition/documents be paged! flagged/ marked.

24 Certificate “compared with the originalicertified copy and found correct and nothing |
has been deleted, added. omitted or changed” by the counsel. it engaged. otherwise by |
the petitioner. be given on every better copy. |

25; Please give certificate with regard 10 uncertified copies placed on record that you have
checked yourself and no deletion. addition. omission or change has been made therein. |

26. Certificate 10 be furnished by learned counsel that the petitioner in the pre-srrest bail is |
genuine person and that he identifies him or a photocopy of National Identity Card of
the petitioner be filed. |

aT. Typed index 10 accompany Appeal Petition. -u

28 Separate application for condonation of delay under section 5 of the Limitation Act |
should be filed.

2, Computer siip/Bar Code number ta be furnished. |
Returned with the objection (s) at serial No (s), above. |
To be re-submitied after removing the objection (s ) within limitation: days wn

DRR (CRIMINAL) |
ARUJudLYD.R (Judl,), |


--- Page 852 ---
25
CHAPTER 2
Preparation of Paper Book and Records
PART A THE PREPARATION OF PRINTED RECORDS IN FIRST APPEALS.

1. In first appeals from orders no printing will be required unless
specially directed by the Judge admitting the appeal, who will in
that case order at his discretion the printing of either
(i) an ordinary paper book, or
(ii) a printed record under these rules.

2. In first appeals from decrees admitted to a hearing, a
printed record shall, unless special orders are given to the
contrary, be prepared in accordance with the instructions
hereinafter contained.

3. In the absence of a special order the printed record
under rule 2 shall consist of:

(i) (a) The plaint and pleas.

(b) Such documents either referred to in the plaint as forming
the basis of the suit or considered by the trial court in its
judgment, or duly proved by either of the parties in the
trial Court, as may be specified by either party in
response to a printed notice within the period of 30 days
prescribed in rule 5 (i).

(ii) The autograph record of the trial court.

(iii) The report of the local Commissioner, if any,
appointed under Order XXVI of the Civil Procedure
Code. With the report should be printed any statements
of the parties recorded before the Commissioner and
tabular statements prepared by him, if they form an
integral portion of his report.

(iv) Evidence taken on commission under Order XXVI
of the Civil Procedure Code.

(v) The grounds of appeal to the High Court, in English.

(vi) The order of the Judge or Bench admitting the appeal.


--- Page 853 ---
26

4. Any part of the record not printed under rule 3 may be referred to at
the hearing with the permission of the Court, but no party shall have a
right to refer, during the hearing, to any documents not printed:
Provided that extracts from Revenue Records need not be printed in
extenso. The parties may refer to the original record for such extracts,
maps and plans.

5. (i) The Deputy Registrar shall, as soon as the record in a First
Appeal has been received, cause notice to be given to the
appellant and respondent, or their counsel if any, to specify
within 30 days of the date of notice the documents mentioned
in rule 3 (i)(b) above, which should be included in the printed
record of the appeal. In default of their doing so, the printed
record will consist of the documents specified in rule 3 (i) (a)
and (ii) to (vi) only.

(ii) The cost of including the documents specified in rule 3 (i) (a)
and (ii) to (vi) shall be borne by the appellant and shall be paid
as provided for in rules 8 and 9 below.

(ii) The cost of including the documents mentioned in rule 3
(i) (b) shall be borne by the party at whose instance they are
so included and must be paid within 30 days from the date of
demand; otherwise they shall be excluded.

6. All documents included in the printed or photocopied record shall be

printed or photocopied according to their serial order, first those
produced by the plaintiff and then those produced by the defendant.
On each document shall be endorsed the order by, and date on, which
it was admitted by the trial court:
Provided that when counsel for both the parties agree that the
documents should be arranged for convenience in a different order,
the documents shall be printed in that order. In that case, a footnote
shall be added on the first page of the volume of documents that the
documents have been printed in the order suggested by counsel for
the parties.

7. Vernacular documents printed or photocopied by desire of parties under
rule 5 shall not ordinarily be translated into English unless especially
desired in writing by the party at whose instance they are included in the
printed or photocopied record.

Note: Documents in Hindi, Gurmukhi and other
characters shall, if their translation into simple idiomatic
Urdu is not already on the record, be sent to the trial Court
for this purpose. The parties shall be required to


--- Page 854 ---
27
appear before the trial Court to assist in the translation of such
documents. Failure on their part to do so will result in the
omission of such documents from the printed or photocopied
record. The translation shall be accompanied by an affidavit as to
its correctness.

8. In every appeal in which under these rules a record has to be printed
or photocopied, the appellant shall, with his appeal, attach a receipt
for a sum of five hundred rupees which should be deposited with the
Treasurer of the High Court to cover the cost of printing or photo-
copying the record. No first appeal from a decree shall be received
unless such receipt accompanies it.

Exception.- This rule does not apply to an appeal filed in forma
pauperis, in which case the appellant will be required to pay the
approximate cost of printing or copying of such portion of the
record as the Judge admitting the appeal, may, under rule 2 of this
chapter, order.*

9. (a) If the deposit required under rule 8 proves insufficient to cover the
cost of that part of the printed or photocopied record which is to be
borne by the appellant, the Deputy Registrar may, by a notice in
writing, require that such further deposit as seems to him necessary
shall be made within one month.

(b) If such further deposit be not made within one month from the date
of receipt of the notice, the appeal shall, on the expiry of that
period, be sent, without notice to the appellant, to a Judge for an
order of dismissal: Provided that, if the appellant makes an
application within fifteen days after dismissal for the suspension of
this rule, he may be granted one period of fifteen days in which to
pay the deposit. Should he again make default, the appeal shall
forthwith be sent, without notice to the appellant, to a Judge for an
order of dismissal or other disposal.

(c) When after deposit an ad interim order has been passed in the
appeal it shall be discharged unless the further deposit, if any, is
made within the period specified, according to clauses (a) and (b)
of this rule.

10. The period fixed by rule 9 for the payment of the deposit may, on
cause being shown in an application duly stamped, be enlarged by an
order of the Court so as to permit the amount of such deposit to be
paid by installment.

11. Such number of copies of the record shall be printed or photocopied
as the Court may, by general rule in this behalf or by special order in
any particular case, direct.


--- Page 855 ---
28
Note: The number of copies ordinarily to be printed has been fixed at
ten. Enough copies should be printed or photocopied to enable
juniors watching the case to be provided with them.

12. The appellant and respondent may each obtain two copies of
the printed or photocopied record free of charge and one additional
copy free of charge for each Advocate or Pleader employed in excess
of two. Additional copies, if available, may be purchased at two
rupees per page of printed or photocopied matter.*

13. Parties and counsel shall be entitled to receive copies of the printed or
photocopied record on application to the Registrar or Deputy Registrar
at least one month before the date fixed for hearing.

14. (a) At the foot of every printed record shall be noted the amount of
the printing and incidental charges and the party from whom
levied, and such amount shall be included in the costs of the
appeal unless the Court shall in any case otherwise direct.

(b) Should the amount so charged be less than the sum or sums
deposited under rules 5, 8 and 9, the Registrar or the Deputy
Registrar shall refund the unexpended balance to the party by
whom the deposit was made. Should it be more he will take
action under rule 9 or 10.

15. The Registrar or the Deputy Registrar may and, if so required by
either party by petition duly stamped, shall refer to the Court any
matter not herein expressly required to be referred.

16. For the purposes of these rules, when an order of the Court is
required, the order of one Judge shall be sufficient and such order
shall, subject to reconsideration by the Bench hearing the appeal, be
conclusive.

17. (a) When an order has been made by a Division or Full Bench,

under Order XLI rule 25 or rule 27 of the Code of Civil
Procedure, in an appeal to which these rules have been
applied, and additional evidence has been taken in pursuance
of such order, a Judge may, at any time after completion of the
record of the enquiry, make an order that a supplementary
printed or photocopied record be prepared of:

(i) the order made under Order XLI rule 25 or rule 27,

Civil Procedure Code, and
(ii) the proceedings taken thereunder or any part thereof.


--- Page 856 ---
29
(b) The order shall direct by which party or parties the expense of
preparing the supplementary record or any part thereof shall
be borne in the first instance.
(c) When a Judge's order for the preparation of a supplementary
record has been made, the Registrar or the Deputy Registrar shall
deal with the matter under the foregoing rules so far as applicable.


--- Page 857 ---
30
30
SCHEDULE A
Index of the papers printed
FIRST APPEAL NO. OF
(Name) __ (Plaintiff or Defendant) Appellant. \
(Name) (Defendant or Plaintiff) Respondent No
Sr. | Date of the Description of the document. ete Page.
| document. ete.
| No: { |
| in “| Petition of plaint (documents referred to in the —
| | | plaint or considered in the judgment or duly | |
| | proved by either of the parties in the trial |
| | | court). |
[ | Written statement of defendants |! |
| Plaintiffs’ replication (0 above
| | Defendants’ rejoinder to above. 1
| | Issues.
|
| Plaintiffs” oral evidence (each witness by
name). |
i
| Defendants oral evidence
| (each witness by name). |
|
| | | Notes of the arguments advanced by the parties.
| | Judgment of the trial Court.
| |
| Decree of the trial Court, [
Petition of appeal 10 the High Court.
| |
|
| Order of Judge admitting the appeal to a Bench. |
NB. Intermediate orders of the Court should be inserted in
chronological order as they occur.


--- Page 858 ---
31
SCHEDULE B

The work of transcribing, transliterating, translating, printing and
photocopying the record will be charged for at the following rates under rules 5, 8 and
9: -

Typing and revising the record per 1000 words Rs.10/-

Photo copy per page of printed matter Rs. 2/-
Note: Since the printing of paper-books has been dispensed with, the rates for
transcribing, examining, certifying, transliterating and translating work are not being
fixed.


--- Page 859 ---
32
PART B THE PRINTING OF PAPER-BOOKS IN SECOND APPEALS

AND REVISIONS.

1. (1) Paper-books shall be printed in all second appeals and revisions
admitted to a hearing before or referred to a Division Bench or a
Full Bench, unless there is an order to the contrary, passed by
the Motion Bench or the referring Judge or Judges.

(2) No paper-book shall be printed in second appeals admitted to
hearing before a Single Judge, except when so ordered by the
Motion Bench.

2. The printed paper-book shall consist of :-

(a) copies or translations of the judgments of the lower
courts and the decree of the lower appellate court,

(b) the grounds of appeal or revision and a memorandum
of the names of the parties or, if the appeal or revision was
filed in vernacular, a translation thereof, and

(c) a copy of the order of the Judge admitting the case to a
Bench.

3. (1) In every appeal and cross appeal in which a paper-book has
under these rules to be printed, the appellant shall, within fifteen
days of the date of the order admitting the appeal, deposit with
the Treasurer of the High Court, a sum of rupees five hundred to
cover the cost of the paper-book at the rates specified in the
Schedule.”

(2) An additional sum of rupees fifty for translating the plaint and
pleas shall be similarly deposited in every case in which the plaint
and the pleas are to be included in the paper-book. The plaint
and pleas shall not, however, be printed except at the express
request of the parties or their counsel, or, when so directed by the
Judge or Judges admitting the appeal.*

4. If the appellant or respondent fails to deposit the sum or sums
required under rule 3 within the prescribed period, the procedure
laid down in clause (b) of rule 9 of Part A of this Chapter shall be
followed.

5. Such number of copies of the paper-book shall be printed as the
Court may, by general rule in that behalf or special order in a
particular case, direct.


--- Page 860 ---
33
Note: The number of copies ordinarily to be printed has been
fixed at thirteen. Enough copies should be printed to enable
juniors watching the case to be provided with a paper-book.

6. Each appellant and the respondent appearing separately may
obtain two copies of the printed paper-book free of charge, and
additional copies, if available, may be purchased at rupees two
per page.*

7. 1) At the foot of every printed paper-book shall be noted
the amount of printing and other charges, and the party from
whom levied, and such amounts shall be included in the costs of
the appeal, unless the Court in any case directs otherwise.

(2) Should the amount so charged be less than the sum or
sums deposited under rule 3, the Registrar or the Deputy
Registrar shall refund the unexpended balance to the party by
whom deposit was made. Should it be more, he will take action
under rule 4.

8. For the purposes of rules 3 to 7 the expression “appeal” shall
include a petition for revision admitted to a hearing before a
Division Bench or referred to a Full Bench and the expression
“Appellant” shall include a petitioner in the revision petition.”

Schedule
(referred to in rule 3).

The work of transcribing, transliterating, translating, printing and photocopying

the record will be charged for at the following rates under rule 3:-

Typing and revising the record per 1,000 words Rs. 10.00

Photo copy per page of printed matter Rs. 2.00

Note: Since the printing of paper-books has been dispensed with, the rates for
transcribing, examining, certifying, transliterating and translating work are not being
fixed.”


--- Page 861 ---
34
PART C PREPARATION OF PAPER-BOOKS IN INTRA COURT APPEALS.

1. In Intra Court Appeals no printing will be required unless
specially directed by the Judges admitting the appeal.*

2. The paper-book in such appeals shall ordinarily consist of —
(c) the memorandum of appeal;

(c) a copy of the judgment appealed from;
(c) a copy of the paper-book which was before the
Judge from whose judgment the appeal is preferred.

3. The paper-book shall be prepared in duplicate for the use of
the two Judges of the Bench by which the motion for
admission of the appeal is heard. One copy shall be made up
from the contents of the original record. The other shall be
prepared at the expense of the appellant.

4. In every Intra Court Appeal, the appellant shall, with his
appeal, attach a receipt for a sum of Rs.100/-, which should be
deposited with the Treasurer of the High Court, to cover the cost of
the preparation of the second paper-book at the rates laid down in
Schedule B to Part A.


--- Page 862 ---
35
PART D PREPARATION OF PAPER-BOOKS IN CUSTOM/USAGE
CASES.
[Omitted].


--- Page 863 ---
36
PART E THE TRANSLATION OF CERTAIN VERNACULAR
DOCUMENTS PRESENTED TO THE HIGH COURT.

1. (i) Such vernacular documents filed in the High Court in its
civil appellate or civil revisional jurisdiction as may from time to
time be prescribed by the Court,* shall be translated, and,
subject to rule 4, the expense of such translation shall be paid
by appellant or petitioner.

(ii) Nothing in this part shall be deemed to require the translation
of any documents into English for presentation to a Judge
sitting in Single Bench.

2. The translation shall be made and certified by such agency as the
Court may from time to time appoint, and the maximum total charge
shall not exceed thirty rupees for one thousand words.*

3. On the presentation of an appeal or petition to which these rules
apply, the person presenting the same shall deposit the amount
required to defray the cost of translation, if any, and no appeal or
petition will be accepted unless accompanied by such deposit.

4. The Court, in regard to any particular class or classes of cases, by a
rule of Court, and a Judge, in respect of any particular case not
provided for by rule of Court, by an order stating the grounds thereof,
may dispense with the payment prescribed by these rules.

* The following vernacular documents are required to be translated:-

(1) Memorandum of appeal.

(2) Petition for revision.

(3)  Annexures to such memorandum or petition.

(4) Copies of decrees, judgments or orders.

(5) Application for--

(i) review of judgments of the High Court;

(ii) appointment of guardian ad litem;

(iii) appointment of new parties or representatives of existing or
deceased parties;

(iv) re-admission of case for--
(a) non-appearance; or
(b) non-payment of translation, printing or process fees;

(v) stay of execution of decrees;

(vi) transfer;

(vii) alteration of dates of hearing ;

(viii) compliance with or connected with the rules relating to the

preparation of printed records.

(6) Returns to orders of remand of the High Court.

(7) Objections to orders of remand of High Court.

(8) Deed of compromise.


--- Page 864 ---
37
CHAPTER 3
Jurisdiction
PART A RULES REGULATING THE PRACTICE OF THE HIGH COURT IN THE
HEARING OF CAUSES AND OTHER MATTERS.

1. The Court will open daily, except on notified holidays, for the
transaction of judicial business between such hours as may be
prescribed from time to time.

No fresh case will ordinarily be called for hearing by a Bench after
2.30 p.m but the hearing of a part heard case may be continued so
long as the Bench hearing it may deem necessary.*

2. The Judges will sit singly or in benches of two or more Judges in
accordance with a roster to be prepared by the Deputy Registrar with
the approval of the Chief Justice from time to time.*

3. Plaints, appeals, applications and petitions for a preliminary hearing
will be distributed by the Deputy Registrar two days previously. The
distribution lists will be initialed by the Deputy Registrar, and no
change in them will be made without his authorization and initials. A
copy of the list will be supplied to the Judges’ Readers and to the Bar
Room, and the Judges’ Readers will bring to the notice of the Judges
and the Deputy Registrar any alterations that appear unauthorized.

4. Ordinary and urgent petitions shall be set down for hearing by the
Deputy Registrar before Single and Division Benches in accordance
with the roster for the time being prescribed under rule 2 above.

5. (a) A register of civil cases, complete in every respect, will be
maintained in the High Court. From this register, cases will be
taken up according to the order of institution for incorporation
in a weekly list of cases to be heard by Division and Single
Benches. The weekly list will be broken up into daily list after
every week. The special order cases should be placed with
indication only. No indication is to be given as ‘No.1’ without
the specific order of the Court or indication on result parcha.
The daily cause list for the week shall be issued immediately
on preceding Wednesday. All left-over cases of the week shall,
as far as possible, be fixed on the corresponding day of the
week following the next


--- Page 865 ---
38
week, for instance a case left-over on Wednesday, the 24"
November, 1965 will be fixed for Wednesday, the 8"
December, 1965. No supplementary list of part-heard cases or
of cases adjourned by a Judge specifically to the next week
will be issued as they are expected to be taken up on the next
day unless otherwise directed by the Judge.

(b) A separate register of criminal cases within the jurisdiction of
Division and Single Benches, complete in every respect, will
be maintained in the High Court. From this register cases will
be taken according to order of institution for incorporation in a
weekly list of cases to be heard by both Division and Single
Benches. The weekly list will be broken up into daily list and
dealt with as in rule 5 (a) above.

(c) Full and Special Bench cases which cannot conveniently be
heard on ordinary Bench days, will be heard on the first
Monday in every month or on such other day or days as the
Chief Justice may direct in the event of the first Monday being
a holiday, or the work being excessive for one day. *

6. Cases will be set down in the lists in the order of the date of
admission except as directed below and will be heard in that order,
unless directed otherwise by the Court.

Exceptions. -

(a) Postponed cases take priority over all other cases
before a Bench in their own class.”

(b) Remanded cases take priority over all others except
postponed cases.

(c) Cases fixed for “actual dates” under the second proviso
to rule 8 shall be listed first in the daily lists subject to
part-heard cases. Cases fixed by Judges for actual
dates shall be listed next.

(d) Cases marked “very early” or “early” by order of a
Judge or Judges and commercial causes, family
matters and rent cases shall take priority over ordinary
cases.”

(e) An appeal or petition against an order of remand of a
lower court shall be marked “early” and shall take
priority over ordinary cases.

(f) An appeal or petition in connection with which
proceedings pending in the lower court are ordered to
be stayed or have to be stayed in consequence of the
record being sent for by the High Court for the disposal
of such appeal or petition, shall be marked “early” and
shall take priority over ordinary cases.


--- Page 866 ---
39
7. (i) An application for the postponement of a case shall be
presented to the Deputy Registrar and shall not be taken direct
to a Judge.

(ii) Cases may be postponed by the Deputy Registrar or, in his
absence, under the orders of such other officer as may be in
charge of the judicial department for the time being--

(a) if, two days before the date of hearing, the record has
not been received, or the case is otherwise
incomplete;

(b) if, before the day of hearing, the death of a party is
announced and an adjournment is thereby
necessitated;

(c) if the lower courts have not complied with a precept
or process.

(ii) Except as provided above, no application for the
adjournment of a case shall be entertained unless a Bench or
Judge, as the case may be, is satisfied that by reason of
recent death, sudden illness or domestic bereavement a party
cannot be properly represented at the hearing unless such
order is made.

(iv) Ordinarily part-heard cases will be proceeded with on the
following day or days till they are concluded.

8. Parties and their Advocates, or Agents are required to attend the
Court on the day or days for which their cases are set down, and on
subsequent days until their cases are disposed of or are postponed:
Provided that intimation of the pacca date fixed in a case will be sent
by post card to such parties as are not represented by counsel at the
addresses originally given by them in their appeals or petitions or at
the fresh addresses supplied by them at any later stage:

Provided further that in a case in which an Advocate not ordinarily

resident in Lahore, Rawalpindi, Multan or Bahawalpur has to appear,

the Deputy Registrar concerned shall fix the “actual date” sufficiently
in advance and give to the said Advocate notice thereof by registered
post card. Such date shall not be altered except by an order of the

Bench concerned or of the first Division Motion Bench if the case is

not listed before a particular Bench.*

9. (i) Urgent petitions must ordinarily be presented between such

hours as may be prescribed from time to time.*

(ii) These petitions will be laid before the Deputy Registrar who
shall ordinarily fix them for hearing on the next day. If, however,
the Deputy Registrar is satisfied that there is sufficient urgency, he
shall mark the petition for hearing on the same day.


--- Page 867 ---
40
PART B JURISDICTION OF A SINGLE JUDGE AND OF BENCHES OF THE

COURT.

1. Save as provided by law or by these rules or by a special order
of the Chief Justice, all cases shall be heard and disposed of by a
Judge sitting alone.

Explanation. - A case includes a motion application, petition,

reference, suit, appeal, revision or other proceedings to be heard and

disposed of by the High Court under any law in the exercise of its
ordinary, extra-ordinary, original or appellate jurisdiction.

2. 1) Save as provided by these rules, the following cases shall be

heard and disposed of by a Division Bench:-
(i) (a) A regular first appeal from the decree of a subordinate
court, jurisdictional value of which exceeds that of the

District Court prescribed by the Civil Courts Ordinance,

1962 (No.l of 1962), and any cross- objection to decree.

(b) An appeal under the Land Acquisition Act if the
jurisdictional value involved in the appeal exceeds the one
indicated in sub-clause (a) above.

(ii) (@) An appeal or reference in a case in which a
sentence of death has been passed.

(b) A case in which a notice has been issued to
person sentenced to imprisonment or
imprisonment for life requiring him to show cause as to
why the sentence should not be altered to death.

(c) An appeal by -

(i) the Provincial Government under section
417(1) of the Code of Criminal Procedure, or
(ii) the complainant under section 417(2) of the Code

after grant of leave by a Single Judge, or
(iii) an aggrieved person under section 417(2-A) of the
Code,
from an order of acquittal of a charge punishable with
death or imprisonment for life.

2) A Single Judge while sitting in the long vacation or winter
holidays, or when he is the only Judge available at a Bench,
may exercise the original and appellate jurisdiction vested in
the Court-


--- Page 868 ---
41
(i) in any criminal matter other than one mentioned in
clause (ii) of sub-rule (1);
(ii) in any urgent matter connected with, relating to or
arising out of, the execution of a decree; and
(iii) in any miscellaneous matter which in his opinion
requires immediate attention.

3. In cases not provided for by Order XLVII rule 5 of the Civil Procedure
Code, an application for a review of a decree or order shall be heard:

(a) if the decree or order , review of which is applied for, was
passed by a Judge sitting alone, by a Bench of two or more
Judges, or

(b) if the said decree or order was passed by a Bench of two or
more Judges, by a Bench consisting of at least as many
Judges as the Bench review of whose decree or order is
applied for .

4. A Full Bench shall ordinarily be constituted of three Judges, but may
be constituted of more than three Judges in pursuance of an order in
writing by the Chief Justice.

4-A. (i). A Judge may, if he thinks fit, refer any matter with the

permission of the Chief Justice to a Division Bench of two
Judges.

(ii) A Division Bench, if it thinks fit, may refer any matter with
the permission of the Chief Justice to a Full Bench.**

5. The Chief Justice shall nominate the Judges constituting a Division or
Full Bench.”

6. The Judge or Judges of a Bench by whom any question or case is
referred shall ordinarily be members of the Division or Full Bench, as
the case may be, appointed to consider such question or case.*

7. If a majority of a Full Bench of three Judges so determine, by order in
writing at any time before final decision, the Full Bench for the
decision of any question or case referred to a Full Bench of three
Judges shall be constituted by four or more Judges according to such
direction.


--- Page 869 ---
42
PART C POWERS DELEGATED TO THE REGISTRAR FOR THE DISPOSAL
OF CERTAIN JUDICIAL MATTERS.

1. In accordance with the powers vested in them by Clause 35 of the
Letters Patent, the Chief Justice and the Judges have been pleased to
delegate the following functions to the Registrar: Provided that if the
Registrar, has had no experience as a Judicial Officer of the status of
the District and Sessions Judge or Additional District and Sessions
Judge he shall not exercise the powers mentioned in clauses (iii), (iv),
(v), (viii) and (xvi) below: Provided further that if an officer other than
the Registrar who has had experience as a Judicial Officer of the
standing of District and Sessions Judge or Additional District and
Sessions Judges be available, then powers mentioned in these
clauses shall stand delegated to him:-

(i) Power to issue notices on an application for Probate or Letters
of Administration or for revocation of the same.

(ii) Power to dispose of all matters relating to the service of
notices or other processes, including substituted service,
except the power to dispense with service on proforma
respondents.

(iii) Power to receive and dispose of an application under Order
XXIl rules 2, 3,4 and 10 of the Code of Civil Procedure, and to
amend the record, if necessary, except in cases under appeal
to the Supreme Court.

(iv) Power to appoint or discharge a next friend or guardian ad-
litem of a minor or person of unsound mind, except in cases
under appeal to the Supreme Court and to amend the record
accordingly.

(v) Power to receive and dispose of an application for the
withdrawal of an appeal or a consent decree or order.

(vi) Power to receive and dispose of an application under
Order XLI rule 10 of the Code of Civil Procedure.

(vii) Power to receive an application under Order XLV rule 15 of
the Code of Civil Procedure, and to issue notice thereon.

(vii) Power to receive an application for substitution of names in
an appeal to the Supreme Court, and to issue notice thereon.

(ix) Power to receive and dispose of an application for the return
of a document.


--- Page 870 ---
43

(x) Power to require any person or party to file an affidavit
with respect to any application or matter in respect of which he
has power to exercise any discretion or to make any order.

(xi) Power to call for a further deposit when the deposit already
made by the appellant in an appeal to the Supreme Court is
not sufficient to defray the cost of preparing the record.

(xii) Power to order payment of the profit accruing on
Government Securities deposited under Order XLV rule 7 of
the Code of Civil Procedure, and to order the refund of any
unexpended balance under Order XLV rule 12, C.P.C.

(xiii) Power to direct in what newspapers the publication referred
to in Order XLV rule 9-A of the Code of Civil Procedure, shall
be made.

(xiv) ***[Omitted]

(xv) Power to pass formal orders regarding translation and
typing or photocopying of documentary evidence and to
summon files and records.

(xvi) (a) ***[Omitted].

(b) ***[Omitted].

(xvii) Power to grant time for making up deficiency in court-fees in
cases referred to him as Taxing Officer under section 5 of the
Court Fees Act,1870.

No application for extension of the time will be refused without
the orders of the Court.
Note:(1) The above powers will be exercised by the Registrar
subject to any general or special orders passed by the Chief
Justice in this behalf.
(2) The power delegated to the Registrar under clauses

(i) to (xiii) and (xv) may also be exercised by the Deputy
Registrars.*

2. Under the Code of Criminal Procedure, the Registrar has been

delegated with the following functions:-
(1) Power to sign complaints under the proviso to section 476(1),
Criminal Procedure Code.

3. In accordance with the powers vested by Clause 35 of the Letters
Patent, the Chief Justice and Judges have been pleased to direct that
any person holding the post of Registrar of the High Court or any other
officer of the High Court who has had experience as Additional District
and Sessions Judge or District and Sessions Judge may be
empowered by name by the Chief Justice to perform


--- Page 871 ---
44
any of the following duties:-

(@) To decide the question of the necessity for transcribing and
printing or photocopying any document not specially applied
for by the parties to an appeal to the Supreme Court.

(b) ***[Omitted]

(c) To issue notice to parties in criminal references.

(d) To hear motions for the admission of first appeals and
either to admit them or to direct them to be laid before a Bench
for orders.

(e) To hear appeals from, or petitions for revision of the orders of
District Judges in cases affecting their establishment or those
of the Courts subordinate to them, and to advise the Chief
Justice what orders should be passed.


--- Page 872 ---
45
PART D APPEALS FROM DECREES IN COMMERCIAL CAUSES.

1. “Commercial causes” include causes arising out of the ordinary
transactions of merchants, bankers and traders, such as those relating to
the construction of mercantile documents, export or import of the
merchandize, affreightment, carriage of goods by land, insurance,
banking and mercantile agency, and mercantile usage. Suits on ordinary
loans and mortgages are not “Commercial causes”.

2. The Chief Justice shall, from time to time, nominate one or more of the
Judges of the Court to hear “Commercial causes”.**

3. (a) All cases under the Companies Act and cases affecting the
responsibility of a Railway Administration as carriers, will be
treated as “Commercial causes”.

(b) The Judges may, however, mark any other case as a “Commercial
cause” either at the request of the parties or suo motu, if satisfied that
the said case is a commercial cause as defined in rule 1.
4. All appeals, which have been marked as “Commercial causes” by order of a
Judge under rule 3, shall be brought to a hearing as early as may be practicable, and
shall, as far as possible, be set down before the Judge appointed from time to time
by the Chief Justice to hear “Commercial causes” or before a Bench of which such
Judge is a member. Such causes shall be given priority on the day of hearing over all
other appeals except part-heard appeals and cases frequently postponed.


--- Page 873 ---
46
CHAPTER 4
Special Procedure
Part-I
(CRIMINAL)
PART A SPECIAL RULES OF PROCEDURE IN CRIMINAL CASES.

1. In original trials, in proceedings taken under section 428 of the
Code of Criminal Procedure, upon the hearing of an appeal or
a revision petition, and in any other criminal proceedings
coming before one or more Judges, the Judge or one of the
Judges shall make a memorandum in Urdu or English of the
substance of the evidence of each witness as the examination
proceeds: **01
Provided that, by direction of a Judge, the evidence may be
taken down in shorthand by an officer of the Court, or other
person specially appointed for that purpose.

The transcript of the shorthand shall be corrected and signed
by the Judges or one of them and shall then be placed on the
record.

2. The evidence shall ordinarily be recorded in narrative form,
and shall be signed by the Judge or one of the Judges and
placed with the record.

3. When a sentence of death or of imprisonment for life or of
imprisonment has been passed on an accused person
convicted at a trial held before the High Court in exercise of its
original criminal jurisdiction, the Court shall issue a warrant in
order to cause such sentence to be carried into effect.*01

4. A warrant for the execution of any of the following sentences
passed by the Court in exercise of its original criminal
jurisdiction, namely, -

(a) sentence of death;

(b) sentence of imprisonment for life;

(c) sentence of imprisonment;
shall conform, as nearly as may be, to the forms prescribed by
the Code of Criminal Procedure. *01


--- Page 874 ---
47
5. A warrant for the execution of any sentence mentioned in rule 4
shall be signed by the Judge or one of the Judges, who passed the
sentence, or, if this be not practicable, by the Chief Justice.

6. (a) When the sentence passed upon an accused person is of
any of the kinds specified in rule 4, the Court shall
forthwith cause the warrant to be forwarded to the jail in
which he is to be confined, and unless the accused
person is already confined in such jail, shall cause him to
be forwarded to such jail with the warrant ~~ *01

(b) ***o1[Omitted]

7. Whenever, either by reason of the commutation or alteration of
any such sentence as aforesaid or otherwise, an amended
warrant becomes necessary, such warrant shall conform, so
far as may be, mutatis mutandis, to Form No. XXXVI in
Schedule V of the Code of Criminal Procedure, and shall be
signed in the manner prescribed in rule 5.

8. An order under section 471 of the Code of Criminal Procedure
shall be made in such form as the Judge making the same
thinks fit, and shall be signed by the Judge who makes it, and
the Court shall forthwith cause the accused person to be
forwarded with the order to the place in which he is to be kept
in custody.

9. Whenever an offender has been sentenced by the Court in
exercise of its original criminal jurisdiction to pay a fine, and
the Court directs that a warrant shall be issued under section
386 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, the warrant shall
conform, so far as may be, mutatis mutandis, to Form No.
XXXVII in Schedule V of the said Code, and may be signed by
the Deputy Registrar. *01

NOTE. ***[Omitted]

10. Every warrant, amended warrant and order made and signed
under the preceding rule shall, before being issued, be sealed
with the seal of the Court.

11. Processes issued by the High Court may issue over the signature

of the Assistant Registrar of the Branch dealing with the case. *01


--- Page 875 ---
48
PART B RULES REGARDING THE SUMMONING AND EMPANELLING OF
JURORS.
*++[Omitted]


--- Page 876 ---
49
PART C SUBSISTENCE AND TRAVELLING ALLOWANCE TO
COMPLAINANTS AND WITNESSES ATTENDING TRIALS BEFORE
THE HIGH COURT
Rules made by the Lahore High Court Lahore, with the previous
sanction of the Provincial Government, under the power conferred by
section 554 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, regulating the
payment of subsistence and travelling allowance to complainants and
witnesses attending trials before the High Court, in the exercise of its
original criminal jurisdiction, in public prosecutions.
RULES

1. All disbursements on account of the expenses of complainants and
witnesses attending criminal trials before the High Court, will be made
by the Deputy Registrar and will be adjusted by him.

The Deputy Registrar will determine the class to which each
complainant and witness belongs. *01

2. The complainant and witnesses shall be paid for the journey at the
rate chargeable for the cheapest and expeditious mode of
transport. *01

3. The complainant and witnesses shall report themselves to the Deputy
Registrar and will inform him of their names, the class to which they
belong, the date of their departure to attend the High Court and
whether any advances have been made to attend the High Court. *01

4. ***y[Omitted]

5. ***51[Omitted]

6. ***51[Omitted]

7. ***51[Omitted]

8. These rules apply, mutatis mutandis, in the case of trials held by the
High Court elsewhere than at Lahore.

9. In the event of a witness being summoned to attend the High Court in
a criminal case, other than a trial before the High Court in exercise of
its original criminal jurisdiction, the expenses of such witness will be
paid by the Registrar at such rates as the Court may direct.


--- Page 877 ---
50
Notes: 1) The Superintendent of the Mental Hospital, being
the Government specialist in lunacy, is not entitled to any fee
for giving expert evidence on behalf of Government in the High
Court.

2) The Chemical Examiner or the Assistant
Chemical Examiner when summoned to give evidence before
the High Court shall be entitled to recover the following fee for
each appearance:-

Chemical Examiner Rs.100/-
Assistant Chemical Examiner Rs. 50/-

3) As charges under rule 7 are debitable to audited
contingencies, vouchers for sum above Rs.100/- should
accompany the bill sent to the Accountant-General for audit.
*01


--- Page 878 ---
51
PART D RULES OF PROCEDURE IN CASES UNDER SECTION 374 OF THE

CODE OF CRIMINAL PROCEDURE.

1. The rules of procedure to be followed by Sessions Judges in the
submission of proceedings to the High Court under section 374 of

the Code of Criminal Procedure are contained in Chapter 24-B,
High Court Rules and Orders, Volume III.

2. On receipt of the proceedings the Deputy Registrar shall take
immediate steps to have the record printed under the rules next
following.

3. The printed record in Murder Reference cases shall consist of the
following documents:-

(1) Opening sheet of Sessions record.

(1-A) Forwarding letter from the Sessions Judge along with
explanation, if any, for cause of delay.**

(2) Notes and orders of the Sessions Judge.

(3) Charge sheet.

(4) First Information Report in Urdu only.

(5) Report of Chemical Examiner and Serologist, if any.

(6) Statements under sections 342 and 364, Criminal
Procedure Code.

(7) *** [Omitted]

(8) Record of evidence in Court of Sessions with any further
examination under section 364, Criminal Procedure Code,
and altered charge, if any.

(9) Material documentary evidence, if any.

(10) Recovery memos in Urdu only.
(11) Record of opinion of Assessors.
(12) Judgment of Sessions Judge.
(13) Petition of appeal.

4. Twenty copies of the Sessions record shall be printed at
Government expense with the least possible delay, if there is only
one accused, but in case the number of the accused exceeds
one, an extra copy shall be printed for each additional accused.

5. In a case where the Sessions Judge certifies that the accused
person cannot afford to engage counsel for his defence in the
High Court, the Deputy Registrar shall take steps to have counsel
engaged for his defence at Government expense.


--- Page 879 ---
52

6. The hearing of the Murder Reference, in view of confirmation
or otherwise of the sentence of death passed by the Sessions
Judge under section 374 of the Code of Criminal
Procedure, shall take place as a rule within about six weeks
after the date of despatch of the copy of the Sessions Judge's
judgment to the convict.

7. Immediately on the sentence of death being confirmed or not
confirmed, as the case may be, by the High Court, the Deputy
Registrar shall inform the Superintendent of the jail in which
the prisoner is confined of the decision and direct him to
communicate the same to the prisoner forthwith. The Deputy
Registrar shall at the same time inform the Sessions Judge
concerned and return the record to him for taking steps under
section 381 of the Criminal Procedure Code. Copies of the
High Court judgment shall be sent to that officer later, and as
promptly as possible.

8. The record of every case as prepared for the use of the High
Court in which the sentence of death has been confirmed by
the High Court, together with a copy of the High Court
judgment and translations of Police Zimnis, shall, as soon as
orders have been passed confirming the death sentence, be
forwarded to the Provincial Government.


--- Page 880 ---
53
PART E RULES REGARDING LEGAL ASSISTANCE TO PERSONS
CHARGED WITH CAPITAL OFFENCES IN THE HIGH
COURT.
The High Court has framed the following rules for giving legal
assistance to persons charged with an offence punishable with
death:-

1. (a) When an accused is to be tried by the High Court in its original
criminal jurisdiction for an offence punishable with death he
shall be asked by the Court whether he can afford to engage
counsel for his trial. *01

(b) When an accused person has been called upon by the
High Court to show cause why a lesser sentence should not be
enhanced to a sentence of death, the Sessions Judge, on
receipt of notice for service upon the person called upon to
show cause, shall, if he is satisfied that the accused is unable,
because of poverty, to engage counsel for his defence, furnish
a certificate that the accused is entitled to be defended in
forma pauperis.

(c) When a sentence of death is referred by a Sessions
Judge to the High Court for confirmation under the provisions
of section 374, Criminal Procedure Code, the Sessions Judge
shall note whether the accused person was represented by
counsel in his Court, and whether the accused can afford to
engage counsel for his defence in the High Court.

(d) When in an appeal against acquittal in a murder case the
accused is undefended, the Sessions Judge, on receipt of a
notice for service, shall, if he is satisfied that the accused is
unable, because of poverty, to engage a counsel for his
defence in the High Court, furnish a certificate that the accused
is entitled to be defended in forma pauperis.

2. If the High Court decides that the accused is unable on

account of poverty to engage counsel for his defence, the High
Court shall make arrangements to employ counsel at
Government expense.
The High Court may also employ counsel, if it thinks fit, in
every case when the accused is unrepresented, irrespective of
considerations relative to the means of the accused to engage
counsel.


--- Page 881 ---
54

3. The High Court shall, for the above purpose, maintain a list of
legal practitioners whom the Chief Justice may select from
time to time as fit to be employed in such cases.

4. When a counsel is required, the Court shall select from this list
a legal practitioner to defend the accused. Counsel appointed
in such cases should be given sufficient time to enable him to
study the necessary documents, which will be the printed
record of the case as prepared in the High Court. This will be
supplied free of cost.

5. The legal practitioner so employed shall receive a fee of not
less than Rs.2000/- or if the hearing lasts more than a day, a
fee not exceeding Rs.200/- per day. This payment shall be
made through the Provincial Law Secretary on the production
of a certificate signed by the Deputy Registrar (Judicial), in
which the total amount of fees allowed to the legal practitioner
by the Judges hearing the case shall be stated.****y;


--- Page 882 ---
55
PART F RULES FRAMED UNDER SECTION 491(2) OF THE CODE OF

CRIMINAL PROCEDURE, 1898, TO REGULATE PROCEDURE IN

CASES UNDER SECTION 491.

1. An application for an order under section 491 shall be made on an

affidavit setting forth the circumstances under which the order is
sought:
Provided that all communications addressed to the High Court by
a person in the custody of a public officer complaining of his
detention or the conditions of his detention, whether supported by
affidavit or not, shall be laid before a Judge for orders as
applications under this rule.

2. Where the court is of the opinion that a prima facie case for
granting the application is made out, a rule nisi may be issued
calling upon the person or persons against whom the order is
sought to appear on a day to be named therein to show cause why
such order should not be made and at the same time to produce in
Court the body of the person or persons alleged to be illegally or
improperly detained then and there to be dealt with in accordance
with law:

Provided that if the Court so orders, production of the body of the
person alleged to be illegally or improperly detained may be
dispensed with.

3. If the application for an order under clause (a) or (b) of sub-
section (1) of the section alleges that a person is confined under
such circumstances that the confinement amounts to an offence,
the Court may, at the time of issuing a rule nisi, also issue a
search warrant, and the person to whom the warrant is directed
may search for the person so confined; and such search shall be
made in accordance therewith, and the person, if found, shall be
immediately brought before the Court, which shall make such
order as in the circumstances of the case may seem to be proper.

4. The provisions of sections 43, 75, 77, 79, 82, 83 and 84, Criminal
Procedure Code, shall, so far as may be, apply to all such
warrants issued under rule 3.

5 If the Court issuing a search warrant under rule 3 has reasons to
believe that the person to whom the warrant has been directed
may not be able to identify the person confined, the Court may
order a person named in the warrant to accompany the person to
whom the warrant is directed, to assist him in the execution of the
warrant.


--- Page 883 ---
56

6. The writ or the warrant shall be served by the bailiff of the Court
out of the list prepared by the Registrar in consultation with the
Deputy Registrar, or by such other person as may be appointed by
the Judge. Where the application is by or on behalf of a security
prisoner, the writ will be served on the appropriate Government
and not on the officer detaining the prisoner.

A security prisoner means a person who has been
detained under the orders of the Federal or Provincial Government
under a law providing for preventive detention. *01

7. On the return day of such rule or on any day to which the hearing
thereof may be adjourned, where no cause is shown or where
cause is shown and disallowed, the Court shall pass an order that
the person or persons illegally or improperly detained shall be set
at liberty or delivered to the person entitled to his or their custody.
Where cause is allowed, the rule shall be discharged.

8. The Court may, if necessary, in disposing of such rule, take
evidence or direct a Court of Sessions or a Magistrate to take
evidence

9. Upon the return and production of the party on whose behalf the
rule was issued, the custody of the prisoner shall be under the
control and direction of the Court until the disposal of the rule.
Pending the hearing, the Court may admit the prisoner to bail or
remand him to the prison where he is in custody.

10. When a bailiff is deputed by the Court to produce an alleged
detenu/detenus, the party requiring the production should deposit
with the Treasurer in advance, an amount equal to the calculated
expenses for the journeys involved keeping in view his grade of
pay and the daily allowance admissible to him under the relevant
rules. The amount shall be paid to the bailiff after sanction by
Deputy Registrar( Judl.) before proceeding to his destination
against a receipt which shall be kept on the file of the case. *01

11. **01[Omitted].
12. **01[Omitted].

13. In case the bailiff does not submit his claim within the time

mentioned in the last rule, the amount or the balance thereof


--- Page 884 ---
57
should be refunded to the party concerned. In case, however, the
party fails to claim refund within six weeks, the amount due to it
be credited to Government under the head
“Major head 1200000,
Minor head 1230000 Law & Order Receipts,
Detailed head 1231000 Justice,
1231003 Justice-General fees,
fines and forfeitures (74)”
and the treasury challan showing the credit should be
attached to the file of the case. *01

14. If the writ is to be executed at State expense, the bailiff should
be paid his expenses as admissible under the rules.

15. If, at any time, on sufficient ground shown to the satisfaction of
the Registrar, it is proved that the bailiff submitted an
exaggerated or incorrect claim or claimed expenses though
they were met by the party concerned, this should be taken to
be a misconduct and necessary proceedings against him be
initiated under the High Court Establishment (Appointment &
Conditions of Service) Rules, which may result in major
penalty provided by the relevant rules.

16. To check the tendency to file frivolous habeas corpus
petitions, the Court may, at its discretion, require the party
concerned to deposit in advance an amount as fixed by the
Court directing the issuance of rule nisi to be paid to the
detenus as a compensation if the petition is found to be
frivolous or vexatious. *01

17. In disposing of any such rule the Court may, in its discretion,
make an order for the payment by one side or the other of the
costs of the rule.

18. The forms of warrants No.1 and 2 in the Appendix to these
rules shall be followed.


--- Page 885 ---
58
APPENDIX
(see rule 18)
Form of Warrant No.1
(see rule 2) |
IN THE LAHORE HIGH COURT, LAHORE
fo
The Officer in charge of (name of Jail ar lunatic
asylum or other place. where the person 1+ defined in
custody 1 or 10 (mame of person)
You are hereby required 10 hive the body of 10 sow a prisoner in
your custody (or now in your custody) before the High Court, on the day of
next, hy of the clock in the forenoon of the same day 10 be
dealt with sccording 10 law and you shall then and there abide by such order as shall
in that behalf be made by the said Court (1 the prisoner os detwned in public
custody add) and unless the said B.C. shall then and there. by the sind Court. be
ordered to be released. you shall. after the said Count shall have dispensed with his
further attendance cause him to be conveyed, under sale and sure cusiody back to
the said (ail or asylum or other place of cusiody)
Given under my hand and the seal of the Lahore High Court this
= day of 20
Deputy Registrar
NOTE: This warrant 5 in duplicate. One copy thereaf should be sisned and dated m token of
receipt and forwarded to the High Court with the Jest possible delay


--- Page 886 ---
59
Form of Search Warrant No.2
(see rules 3 and 5)
IN THE LAHORE HIGH COURT, LAHORE. “01
lo
(The name and designation of
person to whom the warrant is directed).

Whereas information has been laid before this Count that (give name and
description of the person alleged to be illegally detained) is being illegally detained
in (describe the house or place where the person illegally detained). This is to
authorize and require you, with assistance of (give the description of the person
authorized to accompany the person to whom the warrant is directed) to search for
the aforesaid (give the name and description of the person illegally detained) in the

(describe the place to which the search is to be confined) and. if found. to produce
him forthwith before this Court to be dealt with according to law.
Given under my hand and the seal of the Lahore High Coun.
this dayof 20.....:
Deputy Registrar


--- Page 887 ---
60
PART II (CIVIL)
PART G SPECIAL RULES OF PROCEDURE IN ORIGINALCIVIL CASES.
(a) Evidence.

1. (i) When, at the first or at any subsequent hearing of a suit,
any party appearing in person or present in Court, or any
person able to answer any material question relating to
the suit by whom such party or his pleader is
accompanied, is examined by the Court, the substance of
such examination shall be reduced to writing by the
Judge and shall form part of the record; the substance of
what each witness deposes shall similarly be reduced to
writing by the Judge, and shall form part of the record:
Provided that the Judge may, if he thinks proper, direct
the substance of the examination or the evidence to be
recorded in shorthand by an officer of the Court or other
person specially appointed for the purpose. In the latter
case, the transcript of the shorthand shall be corrected
and signed by the Judge and then placed on the record.

(ii) In a suit tried in the High Court by a Bench of two or
more Judges the evidence may be recorded by any one
Judge. The Judge recording the evidence shall dispose
of all objections of whatever nature regarding the
relevancy or admissibility of evidence unless he, in his
discretion, considers that any objection or objections may
be referred to the Bench for decision.

2. If the Judge who has recorded evidence or caused it to
be recorded in his presence, under these rules, dies or ceases
to be attached to the Court before the conclusion of the suit,
the Judge before whom the suit is continued may, if he thinks
fit, deal with the evidence so recorded as if it had been
recorded by himself or in his presence.


--- Page 888 ---
61
(b) Judgment and Orders.

3. Judgments may be written by the Judge in Urdu or English or
delivered orally, and in the latter case a note thereof in writing
in Urdu, English, or shorthand, shall be taken by an officer of
the Court in attendance for the purpose. The note so taken
shall be written out or typed in full by the officer by whom it
was taken, and shall be submitted by him to the Judge for
correction. After being corrected by the Judge, where
necessary, it shall be filed as the judgment of the Court.**

4. The judgment shall contain a concise statement of the case,
the points for determination, the decision thereon and the
reasons for such decision. When issues have been framed, the
finding or decision of the Court upon each separate issue shall
be stated, with the reason therefor, unless the finding upon any
one or more of the issues be sufficient for the decision of the
suit.

5. Judgment shall be delivered in open Court, either at the close
of the case or on some future day, of which due notice shall be
given to the parties or their counsel.

6. When a case has been heard by a Bench of the Court, the
written opinions of the Judges who heard the case, but who
have ceased to be attached to the Court before delivery of
judgment, shall, unless delivered by another Judge of the
Bench which heard the case, be deemed to be minutes merely
and not judgments.

7. When a party to the suit dies after the last hearing, but before
delivery of judgment, the Court may order the judgment to bear
the date of the last hearing.

8. A memorandum of appeal in a case in which judgment has
been delivered orally, shall be received and filed without a
copy of the judgment.

9. When an order is made in Court or in chambers, a note of its
purport shall be made and signed by the Judge or Judges
making the order; and if the order disposes of a petition, the
reasons for making it shall be stated.

10. When a suit is allowed to be withdrawn with leave to bring a
fresh suit, the order shall be drawn up so as to make the
payment of the costs of the first suit a condition precedent to
the plaintiff bringing a fresh suit, unless the Court or the Judge
who gave permission shall otherwise direct.


--- Page 889 ---
62
PART H RULES OF PROCEDURE IN APPEALS.
(a) Judgments and Orders.

1. Judgments may be written by the Judge in Urdu or English or
delivered orally, and in the latter case a note thereof in writing
in Urdu, English, or shorthand, shall be taken by an officer of
the Court in attendance for the purpose. The note so taken
shall be written out or typed in full by the officer by whom it
was taken, and shall be submitted by him to the Judge for
correction. After being corrected by the Judge, where
necessary, it shall be filed as the judgment of the Court.**

2. Judgment shall be delivered in open Court, either at the close
of the case or on some future day, of which due notice shall be
given to the parties or their counsel.

3. When an appeal has been heard by a Bench of the Court, the
written opinions of the Judges who heard the appeal, but have
ceased to be attached to the Court before delivery of
judgment, shall unless delivered by another Judge of the
Bench which heard the appeal, be deemed to be minutes
merely and not judgments.

4. When a party to the appeal dies after the last hearing, but
before delivery of judgment, the Court may order the judgment
to bear the date of the last hearing.

5. When an appeal is heard by a Bench consisting of two Judges
and the Judges composing the Bench being equally divided in
opinion as to the decision on a point, state that point for
reference to another Judge or Judges under clause 26 of the
Letters Patent, the case shall be heard on that point by one or
more Judges to be nominated by the Chief Justice. The Chief
Justice may be such other Judge or one of such other Judges.

(b) Appellate Decrees.

6. The decree of the High Court shall be drawn up in Urdu or
English, and shall bear the same date as the judgment.**

7. (i) The decree shall contain the number of the appeal, the
names and description of the appellant and
respondent, the names of the plaintiff and defendant in
the suit, and the description of the court from


--- Page 890 ---
63

whose decree or order the appeal is preferred, with the
date of such decree or order; and shall clearly state the
relief granted or other determination of the appeal, in
such manner as not to render reference to other
documents necessary, except the decrees of the courts
below, when those decrees are affirmed or varied, but
not reversed.

Note: In all important cases the Deputy Registrar will,
if this can be done without undue delay or
inconvenience, obtain the signature of counsel to the
draft decree.

(ii) The decree shall also state the amount of costs
incurred in the appeal, and by what parties and in what
proportions the same, and the costs incurred in the
courts below, shall be paid.

(iii) In pauper appeals the provisions of Order XXXII rule
10 of the Code of Civil Procedure shall be observed.
The heading of the decree should run--

“ Appeal in forma pauperis by ---."

In the body should be inserted—

“ The following Court-fee costs are recoverable by
Government as a first charge upon the subject-matter,
under Order XXXII rule 10 of the Code of Civil
Procedure.”

8. (i) As soon as a decree has been drawn up, the Deputy
Registrar shall cause a notice to be exhibited on the notice
board, stating that the decree has been drawn up, and that
any party to the decree or counsel of any party to the
decree may, within 3 days, peruse the decree and sign it or
file with the Deputy Registrar an objection to the decree on
the ground that there is in the judgment a clerical error or
omission or that the decree is not in accordance with the
judgment upon which it is based. Such objection, if any,
shall state clearly what is the clerical error or omission
alleged or in what respect the decree is not in accordance
with the judgment, and shall be signed and dated by the
party or by the Advocate filing it.


--- Page 891 ---
64

(ii) Should any such objection, as is mentioned in clause (i),
be filed on or before the date specified in the notice, the
Deputy Registrar shall, on notice to all the parties, put up
the appeal or case together with the judgment therein, the
draft decree and the objection, for orders before the Judge
or Judges, or one of them, who delivered the judgment; or
if such Judge or Judges has or have ceased to be Judge or
Judges of the Court or be absent on leave or furlough, then
before such Judge or Judges as the Chief Justice shall
appoint for that purpose.

(iii) Should no such objection, as is mentioned in clause (i), be
filed on or before the date specified in the notice, the
Deputy Registrar or such other officer as may be in charge
of the judicial department for the time being having first
dated the decree as of the day when the judgment upon
which the decree is founded was delivered, shall sign the
decree and seal it with the seal of the Court.

(iv) The above procedure shall also be observed in respect of
final orders in all miscellaneous, revision, or other cases.
Note: Under no circumstances shall any decree or order
passed or made by a Judge or Judges be altered, varied or
departed from in any particular in the office, except under
an order, in writing, of the Judge or Judges who passed or
made such decree or order or except under an order made
on appeal from such decree or order or except under an
order made in review.

9. No decree shall be drawn up in cases in which the decision of
the lower court is confirmed under Order XLI rule 11 of the
Code of Civil Procedure.

10. (i) When the draft of any decree or order has been ordered
to be settled in the presence of the parties or when none
of the Judges who concurred in the judgment continues
attached to the Court and the Deputy Registrar thinks it
necessary that it should be so settled, the Deputy
Registrar shall, by notice in writing, which shall be
accompanied by copies of the draft prepared for
approval, appoint a time for settling the same, and the
parties or their counsel must attend such appointment
and produce before the Deputy Registrar such
documents as may be necessary to enable him to settle
the draft. The notice will be sent from the Deputy
Registrar's office to counsel, if any, of the parties, with


--- Page 892 ---
65
a receipt book, in which shall be obtained the signature
of the person with whom the notice is left.

(ii) The notice shall be served on the parties who have
appeared in person by the party who has the carriage
of the decree or the order. When so served, the
original notice, with a memorandum endorsed thereon
of the service of a copy thereof, signed by the party by
whom such service was made, must be delivered to
the Deputy Registrar who may, if not satisfied that
service has been duly made, require such service to
be verified by affidavit.

11. If any party fails to attend the Deputy Registrar's appointment
for settling the draft of a decree or order, or fails to
produce any document called for by the Deputy
Registrar, the Deputy Registrar may proceed to settle
such draft in his absence, or without the production of the
documents aforesaid, or may mention the matter to the
Court.

12. The Deputy Registrar may adjourn any appointment for settling
the draft of any decree or order to such time as he may think fit,
and the parties who attend the appointment shall be bound to
attend the adjourned appointment without further notice.

13. If any party is dissatisfied with any decree or order as settled
by the Deputy Registrar, and intends to mention the matter to
the Court, the Deputy Registrar, if informed of such intention,
shall not proceed to complete the decree without allowing such
party sufficient time to apply to the Court. The application must
be made by motion, or notice to the parties who appeared at
the hearing.

14. When a variation is made by the Court in a draft settled by the
Deputy Registrar, such variation shall be embodied in the
decree or order, and, except when the costs of the application
are ordered to be paid, no fresh order need be drawn up.


--- Page 893 ---
66
PARTI RULES FRAMED BY THE HIGH COURT OF WEST PAKISTAN,
LAHORE, REGARDING THE GRAT OF CERTIFICATE UNDER
ARTICLE 159 ( C ) OF THE CONSTITUTION OF THE ISLAMIC
REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN.
[Omitted]


--- Page 894 ---
67
PART J RULES FOR THE ISSUE OF ORDERS/ DIRECTONS UNDER ARTICLES
199 AND 202 OF THE CONSTITUTION OF THE ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF
PAKISTAN, 1973 AND CLAUSE 27 OF THE LETTERS PATENT.
PARTI- HABEAS CORPUS APPLICATION.

1. Application for the issue of orders under Article 199 (1) (a) (i) shall be
governed by rules 1 to 18 of Chapter 4-F, High Court Rules & Orders,
Volume-V.*

PART II- CONSTITUTIONAL REMEDIES.

2. (1) An application under the Constitution shall:

(a) set out concisely in numbered paragraphs the facts upon
which the applicant relies;

(b) mention the grounds upon which the Court is asked to
make an order;

(c) state exactly the nature of the relief sought;

(d) be accompanied by an affidavit or affidavits in proof of the
facts and certified copies of all pleadings, documents, orders of
the subordinate court or authority or tribunal including the
evidence recorded, if any, and unless dispensed with by the
Court;*

(e) state whether the applicant has moved the High Court
previously for the same relief and if so, with what result.

2) The provisions of rule 1 of Chapter 1-A shall apply, mutatis mutandis,
to applications seeking constitutional remedies.

3. Unless otherwise ordered by the Chief Justice the application shall be laid
before a Single Bench which may summarily dismiss it or pass such order as
it may deem necessary. During vacation the application may be disposed of
by a Vacation Judge.**

4. Subject to the directions of the Court, notice of every application shall be
served on all parties directly affected and for this purpose the applicant shall
file within a week of the admitting order as many authenticated copies of the
application and affidavits as there are parties to be served and the prescribed
process fee: Provided that at the hearing of the application any person, who


--- Page 895 ---
68
desires to be heard in opposition to the application and appears to the Court
to be a proper person to be heard, shall be heard, notwithstanding that he has
not been served with a notice and subject to such conditions as to costs as
the Court may deem fit to impose.

5. An application under these rules may be made by the petitioner in person or
through a counsel.

6. Respondents in writ petitions should be required when notices are issued, to
file written statements, counter-affidavits, if any, and other documents on
which they rely at least two days before the hearing.

7. All questions arising for determination of such petitions shall be decided
ordinarily upon affidavits but the Court may direct that such questions as it
may consider necessary be decided on such other evidence and in such
manner as it may deem fit and in that case it may follow such procedure and
may pass such order as may appear to it to be just.

8. The writ under these rules shall be served personally, if possible, upon the
parties to whom it has been directed or in such manner as the Court issuing
the writ may direct.

PARTIIl- MISCELLANEOUS.

9. Costs shall be in the discretion of the Court in each case.

10.() A court-fee of Rs. 500/- shall be payable on each petition but no court-fee
shall be required in case a writ is required in respect of the detention of any
person by or under orders of any public authority.*

(ii) In every writ petition the petitioner shall deposit with the Treasurer of the High
Court within seven days from the date of its admission a sum sufficient to
cover typing and binding charges of paper books, failing which it will be liable
to dismissal for non-prosecution.

10-A. A court-fee of Rs. 1000/- shall be payable on each appeal filed under the Law
Reforms Ordinance, 1972, against an order passed in exercise of
constitutional jurisdiction.*

11. The forms set out in the Appendix shall be used with suitable modifications
wherever necessary.


--- Page 896 ---
69
APPENDIX.
(Referred to in rule | | of Part-111. Chapter-J of the Rules framed
for the issue of Writs under Article 199 of
the Constitution of the Islamic Republic of Pakistan)
FORM NO.1.
FORM orpe TION
INTHE LAHORE HIGH COURT, LAHORE
SPECIAL ORIGINAL JURISDICTION
Writ Petition No. _. 0f200....
ARS ae = Petitioner,
AND
€b: . Respondent.
Petition under Article 199 of the Constitution of the Islamic
Republic of Pakistan.
The petitioner above named states as follows B
I. The petitioner is (give description and address)
2 The address of the petitioner for service of all notices is,
5 The respondent is (give description and address).
4. Facts on which the applicant relies and the grounds on which
the relief is sought
3) For the reasons set out above. the petitioner prays that (set
out the reliefs sought).
(Signed)
Petitioner
(Signed)
Advocate for the petitioner.


--- Page 897 ---
70
FORM NO. 2.
Day. the day of two thousand and
Present Mr. Justice
Writ PetitionNo. ~~ of 20...
In the matter of
adetenu in the Central Jail at Petitioner.
Petition under Article 199 of the Constitution of the Islamic
Republic of Pakistan praying that in the circumstances
stated therein and in the affidavit filed therewith, the High Court will
be pleased to issue a writ of Habeas Corpus for production before the
Lahore High Court. ~~ the person of detenu in the Central
Jailat to be dealt with according to law and direct that |
he be set at liberty.
ORDER
This petition coming on for hearing. upon perusing the
petition and the affidavit filed in support thereof and other papers
material to this petition and upon hearing the arguments of
Mr. Advocate for the petitioner and of Mr
for the Public Prosecutor on behalf of the State. IT 1S
ORDERED THAT . now a detenu in the Central Jail
at under (specify Act). be released forthwith
from custody. unless he is liable to be detained in custody for some
other cause.
Additional Registrar/ Deputy Registrar,
To
(1) The Superintendent. Central Jail (in
duplicate)
(2) The Chief Secretary to the Government of the Punjab.
(3) The Sessions Judge. oo
Dated: i


--- Page 898 ---
71
]
k
i FORM NO. 3
| Orders directing issue of a Writ of Habeas Corpus
| IN THE LAHORE HIGH COURT, LAHORE,
| Writ Petition No. \ of 20...
! Date
| Present

Mr. Justice pp

(1) . Petitioner

(1 I __.Respondent.

Petition under Article 199 of the Constitution of the Islamic

Republic of Pakistan praying that in the circumstances set out in the petition
and affidavit filed therewith, the Court may be pleased to issue a Writ of
Habeas Corpus, etc.

The petition coming on this day for orders, upon reading the petition
etc., and upon hearing Mr. for the petitioner and
Mr. for the respondent. it is ordered that the Superintendent,
Central Jail, at be required to produce the body of

confined in the said jail. immediately before this Court to be
dealt with according to law.
Additional Registrar/ Deputy Registrar.


--- Page 899 ---
72
FORM NO.
IN THE LAHORE HIGH COURT, LAHORE
Writ Petition No. of: 20...
Day. Day of
‘Two Thousand and f
Present \
Mr Justice ?
[84] oo . = m——— a ____ Petitioner
(2) - . . Respondent
PETITION praying that in the circumstances stated in the affidavit
filed therewith. the High Court will be pleased 10 issue a Writ of Certiorari under
Article 199(1) (aii) of the Constitution of the Islamic Republic of Pakistan. 1973,
calling for the records in ___onthefileof ~ and quash the
order therein. **
This petition coming on for orders. upon perusing the petition and
the affidavit filed in support thereof and upon hearing the arguments of
Mr. Advocate for petitioner. it is ordered as follows:-
(1) that a writ of certiorari returnable do issue to the
calling for the records in
ee _ onthe fileof _
(2) that a notice do issue to the respondent herein directing him
to appear before this Court in person or by Advocate on
_— So _ am. and 10 show cause why the
application should not be complied with.
Dated: 20... Additional Registrar/ Deputy Registrar. E
|


--- Page 900 ---
73
|
WRIT AND NOTICE

Writ Petition No, of: 20...
Return of the Writ of Certiorari (under Arficle 199(1 axii) of the Constitution of
the Islamic Republic of Pakistan 1973) **

Notice

(To be endorsed on Writ of Produce),

The process of the Writ of Certiorari whereof mention is within made with
all things touching the same in the several papers hereto as within
command.

The answer of the respondent herein,

Dated: the day of 20...
(Signed).


--- Page 901 ---
74
FORM NOS.
Writ of Certiorari, Order Absolute /
(under Article 199(1) (a) (ii) of the Constitution of the Islami¢ Republic of Pakistan
1973.)**
IN THE LAHORE HIGH COURT, LAHORE. !
The Day of 20550:
Writ Petition No. of 20...
Between f
EE Co Petitioner.
and
a Respondent.
This petition coming on this ~~ dayof 20
on further consideration in the presence of and upon perusing
the records in and comprised in the return to the writ made by
and upon hearing the arguments of for petitioner and of for
respondent. it is ordered as follows:
(In
2) :
Additional Registrar/Deputy Registrar. |


--- Page 902 ---
75
FORM NO, 6.
Writ of Prohibition
(under Article 199(1)(a)(i) of the Constitution
of the Islamic Republic of Pakistan, | 973)
INTHE LAHORE HIGH COURT, LAHORE.
Ihe Day of 200:
Writ Petition No, of 20...
Between
So yp seme Petitioner,
and
— Respondent.
I Whereas by a petition filed in this Court by the aforesaid petitioner,
it has been brought to the notice of this Court that you respondent, aforesaid, have
taken on your file (here describe the proceeding), and whereas this Court is
of opinion that you. the respondent aforesaid, have no Jurisdiction to hear and
determine the said by reason that (ste facts showing want of
Jurisdiction).
You are hereby prohibited from further proceeding with the
said _
Additional Registrar/ Deputy Registrar,


--- Page 903 ---
76
FORM NO.7.
Order on Petition for Quo Warranio |
(under Article 199(1)(b)(ii) of the Constitution ol'the |
Islamic Republic of Pakistan, 1973)*% h |
IN THE LAHORE HIGH COURT, LAHORE.
Ihe Day of 20...
Writ Petition No. of 20...
Between ¥ |
Se 1 in EE - me Petitioner. |
and |
|
EE Co EE BN oo Respondent, |
|
Petition praying that in the circumstances stated in the affidavit filed
therewith the High Court will be pleased to issue a Writ of Quo Warranto direct
wo the respondent. above named, requiring him to show cause by what
authority he claims to have. use. enjoy and perform the rights. duties. privileges of
the office of . oo So ot
The petition coming on for hearing this day. upon reading the |
petition. etc. hearing Mr. for the petitioner and the said respondent
appearing by Mr. and entering a disclaimer to the Quo Warranto,
this Court doth order and direct that the said respondent herein do not
intermeddle in any manner with the said office and this Court doth further order and ~~
declare that the said office of = is vacant. ;
Additional Registrar’ Deputy Registrar.


--- Page 904 ---
77
FORMNO.§
Writ of Mandamus
(under Article 199 (1) (a) (i) of
the Constitution of the Islamic Republic of Pakistan. 1973.)*+
INTHE LAHORE HIGH COURT, LAHORE.
B The Day of 20..;
Writ Petition No. of 20.
Between
oc = Petitioner.
; and
a — see Respondent.
|
Whereas by section of Act you are required to
| BN (specify the act 10 be done) and whereas it has been represented to the
I Court that, contrary to the requirements of the Act. you failed. neglected or refused
wo inspite of demands made in that behalf
You are hereby directed 10 on or before oo
Additional Registrar/ Deputy Registrar.


--- Page 905 ---
78
PART K DESTITUTE LITIGANT FUND RULES, 1974.

Whereas the Provincial Government allocates funds to be given by
the High Court to the deserving destitute litigants.

The Chief Justice and Judges have framed the following rules to
ensure just and fair utilization of funds placed at the disposal of the High Court on
such persons as really deserve this assistance.

1. (a) These rules may be called the “Destitute Litigant Fund Rules,
1974".
(b) They shall come into force at once.
2. In these rules, except as otherwise provided:

(a) “Authority” means the Chief Justice Lahore High Court or
any other Judge or Officer of the Court specially empowered
by him in this behalf.

(b) “Court” means the Lahore High Court.

(c) “Destitute” means a litigant who has no means to pay
court fee or any other legal charges in connection with a writ
petition to be filed in the Court.

(d) “Fund” means the Destitute Litigant Fund.

(e) “Inquiry Officer” means an officer appointed by the
Authority to enquire into the financial position of the applicant.

3. (a) Every application seeking assistance out of the Fund shall be
accompanied with a schedule of both moveable and
immoveable property, if any, belonging to the applicant, with
estimated value thereof and any other source of income along
with a copy of the writ petition with enclosures intended to be
filed in the Court.

(b) It shall be signed and verified in the manner prescribed for
signing and verification of pleadings.


--- Page 906 ---
79

4. Notwithstanding anything contained in these rules, the application
shall be presented in person to the Deputy Registrar (Judicial) or any
other Officer of the Court so appointed by the Authority to receive
such applications.

5. (a) Where the application is in proper form and duly presented, the
Authority may, if it thinks fit, require the Inquiry Officer to
examine the applicant in order to ascertain his financial
position.

(b) The Inquiry Officer may fix a date and record such evidence as
the applicant may adduce in proof of his being destitute.

(c) The Inquiry Officer may, if he is not satisfied with the
evidence produced before him by the applicant, call for a
report from the Collector concerned in regard to the statement
of the applicant of being a destitute.

(d) The Inquiry Officer shall thereafter proceed to record his
opinion and present the same to the Authority.

(e) Before a destitute litigant is provided funds to file a cause
in this Court, an Officer of the High Court should certify that
there is a prima facie case to be agitated before the Court.

6. On receipt of report from the Inquiry Officer the Authority may pass
such order as it considers necessary for any financial assistance from
the Fund or reject the application.

7. The decision of the Authority shall be final.


--- Page 907 ---
80
CHAPTER 5
Records --- their inspection, grant of copies and destruction
PART A THE INSPECTION OF RECORDS

1. The inspection of records of decided cases will be allowed only under
the orders of the Deputy Registrar concerned.**

2. Records of pending cases will be open, as of right, for inspection of
parties or their authorized agents or any Advocate of the Court, who is
duly authorized to act in the case or junior counsel duly authorized by
a certificate from such Advocate, on the application, that he has
authorized his junior to inspect the record for him:

Provided that an Advocate of the Court may inspect the record of any
such case on giving an assurance that he is in communication with
one of the parties with a view to being retained in it.

Provided also that the inspection of a record will not be permitted on
the date fixed for hearing without the special order of the Judge or one
of the Judges before whom the case is pending.”

2. With the exception of the persons above-mentioned no one will
be allowed access to the record of a pending case without the special
order of a Judge.

4. Applications under rules 1 and 3 shall be made by petition duly
stamped with a court-fee label of Rs.10/-. Other applications for
inspection shall be in writing on a printed form to which must be
affixed a court-fee label of the value prescribed below:-

(a) If ordinary inspection is desired, a court-fee label of Rs.5/-

(b) ’ If urgent inspection on the date of hearing or on a day
other than the date of hearing is desired, a court-fee label of
Rs.10/-.*

Note: (1) No fees should be charged for the inspection of records
in civil and criminal cases by the Advocate-General, Public
Prosecutor or Advocate of the Custodian of Evacuee Property,
as such, or by any counsel appearing for Government in civil
and criminal cases or by counsel appearing for accused or
appellant in cases where the latter is a pauper or is defended
by counsel provided at Government expense.


--- Page 908 ---
81
Note: (2) No fee shall be charged for inspection by parties
and counsel in criminal cases but fees will have to be paid
in case of a-
(a) second inspection of the same record, or
(b) inspection on the day the application for
inspection is made.

5. Applications must distinctly specify the record of which inspection is
desired and shall be presented to the Inspection Clerk between 8.00
a.m. to 10.30 am.*

6. *** [Omitted].

7. (i) No mark shall be made on any record or paper inspected, and
no clerk shall be allowed to take notes except in the presence
and under the supervision of the Advocate with whom he is
attached. The copying of any document or portion of the record
in pen and ink is strictly prohibited; but pencil copies of a
document or portion of the record may be made. Any person
infringing or attempting to infringe the rule shall be liable to be
deprived of the right to inspect records for such period as the
Administration Judge may think fit.*

(ii) Except in the case of connected records, inspection of
which has been permitted for a single fee, access will be
permitted to the record of one case only at a time.

8. The fee provided in rule 4 shall entitle the applicant to inspect the
record on one day only. If inspection of the record is desired to be
continued, a fresh application shall be required and a fresh fee paid
for every succeeding day.*

9. Police papers received in the Court in connection with any pending
criminal case and translation of such papers shall not be available for
inspection, either by the convict or accused or by his agent or by any
legal practitioner retained on his behalf.

10. All applications bearing a court-fee label of Rs.10/- shall be dealt with
by the office at once. All ordinary applications shall be dealt with in the
ordinary course of business.*

11. In the case of an application for ordinary inspection of pending record,
the applicant shall give the Inspection Clerk 24 hours’ notice, in writing
in the application of the day and the time on which it is desired to
inspect such record.


--- Page 909 ---
82

12. When any records are in the custody of the High Court either in
connection with an appeal from a conviction or have been received in
accordance with the procedure laid down in rule 6(b) of Chapter 25-E,
High Court Rules and Orders, Volume Ill, the Deputy Registrar of the
High Court, on being informed by the State that an appeal against
acquittal is contemplated shall hand over the required records to the
Advocate-General on demand during such period as they are not
required for the purposes of the appeal.”

13. In order to trace particulars of a suit or document, counsel may, with
the previous permission in writing of the Deputy Registrar concerned and
in the presence of a court official, inspect civil and criminal registers of
the Court on behalf of parties, free of charge.**


--- Page 910 ---
83
COPY BRANCH RULES

1. Petitions for supply of copies will be received by the Copy Clerk at
the Counter.

2. The Copy Clerk shall be responsible for checking the correctness of
the details of the petition and of the deposit. After checking and
initialling the petition and entering it in his register (Appendix "H").
he will obtain orders from the Supervisor. Copy Branch. whether or
not copy should be supplied.

3. If the Supervisor, Copy Branch. orders supply of copy to the
petitioner. the Copy Clerk will hand over the petition to the
Miscellaneous Clerk for further necessary action.

4. For the aforementioned purposes. the Copy Clerk shall maintain a
register showing the number of petition. date of receipt, case
number. details of deposit. receipt. (the date of supply to the
petitioner). etc.. as shown in the register HC. J.D. 28.

5 The Miscellaneous Clerk will maintain the following registers
showing all the movements of the petitions and will be responsible
for securing the relevant case from the Branch concerned.
expeditiously:-

(i) Main Register showing movement of petition
till the case concerned is
received by him,

Appendix "A".

(ii) Branch-wise Register showing time and date of
requisition from the
Branches and their results,
Appendix “B".

Decided Cases
6. (a) In “decided cases”. the Miscellaneous Clerk will obtain spare
copy(ies) from the Record Keeper Judicial.

(b) ~~ The Record Keeper Judicial shall supply the spare copy(ies)

on requisition. If he cannot, he will give reasons therefor. If


--- Page 911 ---
84

there is no spare copy. a new copy shall be prepared

supplied. :
(c) Where the Branch concerned has reported that the file has not

been received from the Court. the Supervisor of the Copying

Branch shall. in the case of copies applied for Supreme Court

use. ask the Reader of the Hon'ble Judge on the proforma

(Appendix I’) to intimate the approximate time when the

case is likely to be sent to the Branch,

Pending Cases

7. In pending cases. the Miscellancous Clerk will secure the relevant
case from the Branch concerned.

8. After a spare copy/relevant case has been secured the Miscellaneous
Clerk will. after making necessary entries in his register pass it on {
the Examiner, Copy Supply Section.

Action in Copy Supply Section

9. The Examiner. Copy Supply Section. will maintain a register (see
(Appendix “C") showing receipt of work. its allotment to the typists:
and dates of return of the case to the Miscellaneous Clerk.

10. (a) The Typists shall maintain a “Typists Register” which will

consist of two parts:-
Case Diary
I Part-A showing receipt. total number of words
and final return of petition with copies.
(Appendix *D")
i] Part-B daily standard. showing number of words
and charged by the typist. i
(Appendix "E’)
es (by While returning these cases to the Examiner. the Typist shall
obtain signature of the Copy Holder to the Examiner in Part-
A of the Register.


--- Page 912 ---
85

11 If a spare copy is supplied by the Judgment Copy Section columns 3
and 6 of the Examiner's Register should bear the entry “Spare Copy
received”

Delivery of Copies
12. After entering the copies in the cost register. and putting the
prescribed seal along with the particulars given in Appendix “J°
thereon. the Examiner. Copy Supply Section. will deliver them to the
Copy Clerk obtaining the latter's signature on the register. The Copy
Clerk will. in wrn. pass them on to the Supervisor. Copy Section
after completing the accounts
13. After making the necessary checks. the Supervisor Copy Section will
have the copy delivered to the petitioner through the Copy C lerk.
Priority of Petitions

14. All petitions for copies on which urgent fee has been paid. will be
stamped "URGENT" and will take priority over those that are not so
stamped.

Priority as between Urgent Petitions

14-A. All urgent petitions for copies, for the purposes of bail applications.
applications for stay of proceedings. or relating 10 matter in respect
of which a direction has been given that copies be supplied
immediately. shall be further stamped as “TOP PRIORITY". and
shall take priority over those that are not so stamped.

15. (a) The petition for supply of copy bearing the stamp
“URGENT. should be treated with “TOP PRIORITY" by
the Branches concerned, ie. Criminal. Civil and
Miscellaneous and the Record Keeper Judicial. the record
being made available on the very day the petition is received
in the Branch concerned. Reasons should be given if the
records are made available the next moming.

(b) In the case of ordinary petitions, the case should be sent or
io petition returned with proper reports by the next day at the
latest.


--- Page 913 ---
86
16. (a) Where a copy of judgment or decree or both are applied |
on ordinary fee. and the case is either already with or on |
way to the Judgment Copy Section that Section should gis
such cases as much priority as possible and i
simultaneously turn out an additional copy (carbon/photo)
necessary,

Crees. (b) Ihe Decree Writer will be informed by the Civil Branch
all the cases in which decrees have been applied for and hy
will accordingly prepare the decree on priority basis and pass
on the case to the Judgment Copy Section.

17. When copies of judgment are applied for and the case is with
Decree Writer for the preparation of decree. if the decree cannot be
prepared immediately, the Decree Writer will spare the c:

‘ immediately for copying of judgments.

18. Where judgment and decree are applied for on urgent fee, th
process outlined in rules 15 and 16 above will be executed on J
priority basis.

Register to be maintained by Branches

19. (a) Every Branch will maintain a separate register (see Append
*F7) showing receipt of petition and movement of the case
concerned. particularly the notes of despatch to and ret
from the Copy Supply Section.

(b) The Assistant Registrar of each Branch will invariably check
this register daily before the close of the office, and send the
following statement to the Supervisor. Copy Branch. the next
morning:-

(1) Number of applications received:

(ii) Number of applications returned with cases to Copy
Supply Section;

(iii) Number of applications remaining without
compliance: and

(iv) Reasons for non-compliance.


--- Page 914 ---
87
Daily Statements
20. (a) The Supervisor. Copy Section. will consolidate the above
mentioned statements in the following form:-
(i) Number of applications received with cases:
(il) Dates on which copies are actually prepared.
compared and supplied:
(ili) Number of applications awaited from different
Branches:
(iv) Dates of applications remained without compliance.
(bh) The Supervisor, Copy Branch. shall submit this consolidated
statement daily 10 the Assistant Registrar who will sec
whether the reasons advanced for applications remaining
without compliance are genuine or otherwise. and will take
necessary action to have them expedited.
General

2 I'he Supervisor. Copy Section. being in charge of work in the Copy
Branch. shall exercise proper control 10 ensure that no undue delay is
caused in the supply of copies. and he shall pursue the applications
personally and keep the Assistant Registrars concerned informed
about the delays or the non-return ol applications with cases to the
Copy Supply Section.

22. In case of urgent petitions, the actual time of receipt and disposal of
the requisition will be given along with the dates. at every stage.

23: Where petitions are found to be either incompetent or defective, an
“Objection Statement” concerning such petitions will be pasted on
the Notice Board. showing details given in Appendix *G’,

24. Applicants applying for copies shall be given a date in writing on
which delivery of the copy is to be taken. If the copy is not then
completed such date (s) shall be extended from time to time until the
copy is ready for delivery. Intimation of the extended date or dates


--- Page 915 ---
88

will be piven to the applicant in writing. when he calls to tak

delivery of the copy on or after the due date. The final date &

intimated shall. for the purposes of calculation required by this

be deemed to be the day on which the copy is given.

25 If the copy applied for is for Supreme Court use and 1s not ready ol

the date given. the applicant may be given the date following or, for

reasons given. any later date
|
|
|


--- Page 916 ---
89
APPENDIX *A"
~ REGISTERS TO BE MAINTAINED BY THE MISCELLANEOUS CLERK.
1. Main Register
~ Petition No. 7 Date of Receipt. | Movement of the Petition. |
FL | | =
} APPENDIX 'B’
3 2. Branch-wisc Register
{me & Time. | Petition Number. I Signature of the recipient. | Result,
a L | 1 =e)
|


--- Page 917 ---
90
APPENDIX *C" 2
REGISTERS TO BE MAINTAINED BY THE EXAMINER, 3
COPY SUPPLY SECTION i
[7 7] 2 73 4 1s 1 6 | 71
| | + : } seed : I
| Date Petition | Case | Estimated Name of | Date Dae of
Lon number | No. | number | typist/ | of | examination.
which  & I of | copyist | return | return of
| the date. i | words/ with his | 10 | case 10 i
| petition | i | pages. initials. | Examiner | the Misc,
lis i with | Clerk 1
| received. | initials with his i
| | | of Copy | initials, i
| i | holder
| | | 1 & the 3
: | | typist. | |


--- Page 918 ---
91
APPENDIX ‘D*
i TYPISTS' REGISTER
J PART ‘A®
[ Petition No. BN CT | TomiNo. | Pagesen
| and date Date of | of words which |
| I Receipt | Rewmwith | charged charged. |
Copy Holder's | |
[a | | signature, | | B |
APPENDIX ‘E’
| PART ‘B®
| [Dae [Petition No. & Datel No. of words charged, |
| BN | Case No. Ee I |


--- Page 919 ---
92
APPENDIX ‘F*
BRANCH REGISTER OF PETITIONS FOR COPIES =
| Petition | Disposal. "Signature | Date of Name of the |
| particulars | of the | return person to
No | recipient. | of case. | whom
bora. | | | rewmed. |


--- Page 920 ---
93
APPENDIX *G*
OBJECTION STATEMENT
| PetitionNo. Dae. [Name of applicant. | Objection. ]
3 { | |
il | EO (SR) PGi GUS


--- Page 921 ---
94
APPENDIX ‘H’ )
(HC. LD. 28.) 3
COPY CLERKS' REGISTER. hi
1. Serial No. 3
2 Date of presentation of — tor —
3 Date of deposit of advance. oo !
s h Name of applicant and his full address. oo BN |
5; No. of the case. . |
6. * AppellanyPetitioner. oo oo ]
x Respondent. oo oo N
8. Amount deposited. FA i
9 - J — fee. I EE
SEE = reagey i iit i
10. Signature of the Supervisor. i
1 Amount of court fee stamp (if any).
12 Name of Section — _— EE .
13. Excess amount of copying fee recovered.
MW. Excess amount of Aba refunded.
15. Attesied English manuscript copies. oo
16. i Atiésiad Te — manuscript copies, oo


--- Page 922 ---
95
a 17 adios returned. oo
18. Copies struck off by Straker's process.
185A. Date given 61h applicant for —— copy. oo
i Date when copy was ready for —
20. i Po when copy was — . a oo :
_— Ee _—_ _—
I
|
I


--- Page 923 ---
96
APPENDIX I f
PetitionNo. dated eae 20 ‘has’
been filed in the Copy Branch in Case No. i s for supply of
certified copies for filing an appeal in Supreme Court. Branch concerned has
reported that the case in question is still in Court, Please intimate as to when this
case is likely to be sent to the Branch. so that an approximate date can be given 10 y
the petitioner for supply of copies.
b
Reader to Mr. Justice pa 3ioals


--- Page 924 ---
97

APPENDIX “J

COSTS REGISTER
[T7377 5 1 3 (RE oe | |
| { | § | }
[No & daw No. of | No of | Costs. | Urgent | Other | Name
| of peution. | words. | Pages. fee. | fees. | of the

| 5 A Ar A il a | | typisticopyist


--- Page 925 ---
98
PART B THE GRANT OF COPIES AND TRANSLATION OF RECORDS.
A. Persons entitled to copies.

1. A copy or translation of a judicial record may be granted in the
manner prescribed by these rules to any person who is legally
entitled to receive it.

2. (i) A party to a suit or appeal is entitled, at any stage of
the suit or appeal, to obtain on payment copies of the
record of the suit or appeal, including exhibits which
have been put in and finally accepted by the Court in
evidence.

Note: A party who has been ordered to file a written
statement is not entitled to inspect or take a
copy of a written statement filed by another party,
until he has first filed his own.

(ii) A stranger to the suit or appeal may, after decree,
obtain as of right on payment copies of the plaint,
memorandum of appeal, written statements, affidavits
and petitions filed in the suit or appeal; and may, for
sufficient reason shown to the satisfaction of the Court,
obtain copies of any such documents before decree.

(iii) A stranger to the suit or appeal may also obtain as of
right, on payment copies of judgments, decrees or
orders, at any time after they have been passed or
made.

(iv) A stranger to the suit or appeal has no right to obtain
copies of exhibits put in evidence, except with the
consent of the person by whom they were produced.

(v) Any person entitled to obtain a copy of a judicial record
may apply for a translation thereof.


--- Page 926 ---
99
B. Application for copies and translation of records.
3. (i) Copies or translations of judicial records of the High Court will
be supplied on application made to the Court.
Note: Every such application shall bear a Court-fee label of
five rupees, - vide Schedule Il, Article | (d) (iv), Court-Fee
Act,1870, as amended by Punjab Finance Act, 1973. (see
Gazette of Punjab Extra-ordinary, 29" June, 1973).*
(ii) Every such application may be either-
(a) presented in the ordinary course ; or
(b) transmitted through the post, addressed to the
Registrar or the Deputy Registrar.
4. Every application for a copy or translation shall contain the following
particulars, namely,-

(a) the name of the cause;

(b) if the cause is pending, the date of institution thereof, and the
date fixed for hearing, if any;

(c) if the cause has been decided, the date of decision;

(d) where the information referred to in clause (b) and (c) is not
available to the applicant, such other information as may be
sufficient to enable the cause to be identified and traced;

(e) the nature of the document, a copy or translation of which is
required;

(f) in the case of a copy, whether for private or general use;

(9) the name and full postal address of applicant.

5. (i) Upon the presentation or receipt by post of an application for

copy or translation, the proper officer shall-

(a) endorse or cause to be endorsed thereon the date of
presentation;

(b) initial the endorsement;

(c) cause the application to be registered as hereinafter
provided; and

(d) cause the court-fee thereon to be cancelled according
to law.

The application will then be examined and an order passed

thereon as hereinafter prescribed.
Note: The Incharge, Judicial Copy Section, is
authorized to deal with applications for copies and
translations under these rules.


--- Page 927 ---
100

(ii) If the application is in proper form and is one which may
properly be granted under the rules and practice of the Court,
an order will be recorded thereon directing the copy or
translation required to be made and delivered.

(iii) If the application is not in proper form or is one which may not
properly be granted under the rules and practice of the Court,
an order will be recorded thereon specifying the requirements
to be complied with and directing its return to the applicant, or
refusing the application and directing that it be filed, according
to the circumstances of the case.

(iv) Applications for copies which are made so late that the copies
cannot be completed by the date on which they are required,
will be returned to the applicant with an endorsement to that
effect.

C. Description of copies.
6. Copies supplied are of three kinds, namely,-

(i) Attested copies (supplied in either English or Vernacular), for
private use, which do not require a court-fee stamp, but cannot
be used officially until the prescribed court-fee has been
affixed.

(ii) Attested copies (supplied in either English or Vernacular), for
general use, on which the court-fee prescribed by Articles 6, 7,
8 or 9 (as the case may be) of Schedule | of Act VII of 1870
must be affixed before delivery, namely:

On copies of decrees Rs. 4.00
On copies of judgment Rs. 8.00
Other copies -

For every 360 words or fraction

thereof. Rs. 1.50%

(iii) ~~ Unattested copies of plaints, exhibits and depositions prepared
by court stenographers under the orders of the Presiding
Judge when application is made before hand, are supplied to
parties at the rate of Rs. 1.00 per page,

for the first four pages - Rs. 1.00 with an additional
charge of Rs. 1.00 for each additional;

one-fourth of the fees so realized shall be paid to the
court stenographer concerned.*

(iv) Unattested copies of orders passed in a departmental case in
the High Court required by a party to the case for the


--- Page 928 ---
101
purposes of appeal are supplied by Copying Agency at the rate
of Rs. 4/- for every order.

(v) Every application for attested copy will be entertained subject
to deposit of cost in advance as may be fixed by the Chief
Justice from time to time. The amount so deposited will be
adjusted at the time of delivery of copy.

7. (i) Consolidated fees shall be charged for attested copies
according to the following scales or as may be prescribed from
time to time :-

(a) English copy (attested)
For first 200 words or under — Rs.1.50
Every additional 100 words or under --- Rs.1.00
(b) Vernacular copy (attested)
First 200 words or under — Rs. 1.50
Every additional 100 words or under --- Rs. 1.00
(c) Copies of judgments supplied
for purposes of reporting to the
reporters of Private Law Journals,
which undertake to publish only judgments approved
for reporting such copies to be
marked “For reporting only” per page --- Rs. 2.00
(d) Copies of judgments supplied for purposes of reporting
to authorized representatives of newspapers who give
an undertaking that copies so supplied will be used
only for reporting such copies to be marked “For
reporting only” per copy --- Rs. 8.00
(ii) For field maps, boundary maps, tabular work and similar work,
a special fee which must always be a multiple of Rs.5/- shall
be fixed by the Deputy Registrar. — Rs.5.00

(iii) The above fees shall include the cost of the paper which will
be supplied by Government. -—- Rs.5.00

(iv) On application for urgent copies, i.e. copies to take
precedence of other copying work, a uniform extra fee of two
rupees shall be charged. -—- Rs.2.00
Note: For the purpose of (iv) above, the extra fee to be
charged shall be for each paper copied which can properly be
regarded as a separate paper, e.g., every deposition of a
witness or written statement of a party or order of the Court is
a separate paper. In case of doubt as to whether a paper is
separate or not, the Deputy Registrar shall decide.


--- Page 929 ---
102

(iv-a) The fees shall be charged for attested copies (English & Urdu)
prepared on photocopier according to Rs. 2.00 per page.*

8. Copies of translations of records which have already been translated,
or of records ordinarily translated free of charge, will be supplied
under the rules applicable to ordinary copies.

Copies of translations of records which have not been translated

already or of records not ordinarily translated free of charge, will be

supplied under the rules applicable to translations.

9. Copies shall ordinarily be delivered to the applicant not later than
three days from the date on which the fees required under these rules
are deposited.

10. If the actual amount of the charge is to be made in respect of a copy
or translation-

(i) exceeds the amount deposited, the balance will be
recovered before the copy is delivered;

(ii) falls short of the amount deposited, the surplus will be
returned to the person entitled to the copy at the time of
delivering the copy to him.

1. Copies of record required for public purposes by public officers as
defined in section 2(17) of the Code of Civil Procedure of the Federal
or Provincial Governments in Pakistan shall be supplied free of charge
provided the application for copy is endorsed by the Head of the
Department concerned.*

12. A copy of the judgment of the High Court, in appeal or revision in
every criminal case in which, as a result of the decision of the High
Court, any convicted person is required to undergo imprisonment for a
period of not less than two years shall be supplied free of cost to the
Superintendent of the Jail concerned within one month from the date
of judgment or order.

13. When a death sentence is passed or confirmed by the High Court and
the condemned prisoner wishes to appeal to the Supreme Court, he
should be given a copy of the judgment of the High Court free of cost.


--- Page 930 ---
103
PARTC THE DESTRUCTION OF RECORDS.
Rules framed by the High Court under section 3 of the Destruction of the Records
Act, 1917, with the previous approval of the Provincial Government.
PART I- GENERAL.

1. All judicial records, books and papers in respect of which the period,
hereinafter prescribed, for their preservation has expired shall be
destroyed in accordance with the directions contained in the rules next
following:

Provided that the Deputy Registrar may order, for reasons to be
specified, that any particular paper or the record of any particular
case be preserved beyond such period.

2. The destruction of judicial records, books and papers shall be carried
out from time to time as may be necessary; and, subject to the general
superintendence of the Deputy Registrar, shall be supervised by such
officer, hereinafter called the supervising officer, as may be appointed
by the Chief Justice and the Judges for the purpose.

3. The destruction of judicial records, books and papers shall be effected
by burning. All court-fee stamps affixed to documents which are to be
destroyed shall first be removed therefrom and burnt by, or in the
presence of, the supervising officer. *01

PART Il - JUDICIAL RECORDS.

4. Every judicial record shall, for the purposes of these rules, consist of
two parts, namely, (1) part A and (2) part B. Every document admitted
to such records shall be marked with the letter A or the letter B
according as it belongs to part A or part B and shall be placed with
such file and shall without delay be entered in the general index
prefixed to each such record.

5. Part A of a civil judicial record shall consist of the following
documents, namely,-

(a) In original suits.

1) The tablak or envelope containing particulars of the
case and a brief abstract of the orders in English.

2) The index of papers.

3) The order sheet.

4) The plaint, together with any schedule annexed thereto,
and all documents, whether original or copies, filed with
the plaint.


--- Page 931 ---
104
Note: In miscellaneous cases the petition or written
application of the party setting the Court in motion will take the
place of the plaint.

(5) The written statements and pleadings of the parties.

(6) Applications of parties who are strangers to the suit, with the
Court's order thereon.

7) Orders of appointment, removal or discharge of a guardian or
next friend.

8) The memorandum of issues, with amended or additional
issues, if any.

(9) All depositions of witnesses.

(10) Order for fining a witness.

(11) All documents or certified copies thereof received by the Court
during the trial as evidence between the parties.

(12) Order impounding a document.

(13) Commissions, proceedings held thereunder and reports and
examination of Commissioners.

(14) Affidavits.

(15) Reports furnished by the record department.

(16) Applications to refer to arbitration, references to arbitration, the
award or other final return of the arbitrators, with the
proceedings, depositions and documents submitted therewith,
and any application to set aside the award, with the Court's
orders thereon.

17) Instruments of withdrawal, compromise or confession of
judgment.

(18) Orders of arrest or attachment before judgment with all
documents relating thereto.

(19) Interlocutory orders of the Court.

(20) The judgment, translation thereof (if any), or other final
order.

(21) The decree and all documents relating to the preparation or
amendment thereof.

(22) All notes in the handwriting of the Judge.

(23) Application for the re-admission of a suit dismissed for default
or for the re-hearing of a suit decreed ex-parte.

(24) Application for review of judgment with the Court's orders
thereon.

(25) All receipts and acknowledgments filed in execution
proceedings.

(26) Petitions for substitution, addition or striking out of names of
parties or for substitution of the names of the heirs of a
deceased plaintiff or defendant, if allowed.


--- Page 932 ---
105
(b) In Appeals and Miscellaneous cases (including Reference and

Revision proceedings).

[Q))] The tablak or cover containing particulars of the case and a
brief abstract of orders in English.

2) The index.

3) The memorandum of appeal.

(4) The notice, with report of service, in ex-parte cases.

(5) Memorandum of objections under Order XLI rule 22 or 26 of
the Civil Procedure Code.

(6) The finding on issues referred to the lower court for trial under
Order XLI rule 25 of the Civil Procedure Code.

7) Security bond for costs filed by the appellant.

8) Petitions for substitution, addition or striking out of names of
parties or for substitution of the names of the heirs of a
deceased appellant or respondent, if allowed.

9) Depositions of parties or witnesses taken in this Court or by the
lower court on remand.

(10) Order for fining a witness.

(11) Commissions, proceedings held thereunder and reports and
examination of Commissioners.

(12) Order of appointment, removal or discharge of a guardian or
next friend.

(13) Documents filed by the parties.

(14) Order impounding a document.

(15) Affidavits, except those presented with applications which are
rejected.

(16) Applications to refer to arbitration, references to arbitration, the
award or other final return of the arbitrators, with the
proceedings, depositions and documents, submitted therewith,
and any application to set aside the award with the Court's
orders thereon.

17) Instruments of withdrawal, compromise or confession of
judgment.

(18) Interlocutory orders.

(19) The Court's judgment, translation thereof (if any), or other final
order.

(20) The decree and all documents relating to the preparation or
amendment thereof.

(21) Application for the re-admission of an appeal, application or
petition dismissed for default, or for the re-hearing of an
appeal, application or petition decreed ex-parte with final order
thereon.

(22) Application for review of judgment with final order thereon.


--- Page 933 ---
106
(23) Application for revision under section 115 of the Code of Civil
Procedure, 1908.
(24) Judgment and final order on applications referred to in (21) to
(23).
(25) Reference under Order XLVI rule 1 of the Civil Procedure Code
or other law, with the final order.
(26) Three copies of the printed record of civil appeals heard by the
High Court.
6. Subject to any direction by the Court to the contrary, part B of a civil
judicial record shall consist of all documents in such records as are
not indicated in the preceding rule as belonging to part A.
7. Part A of a criminal judicial record shall consist of the following
documents, namely,-
(a) In an original trial, of all papers.
(b) In an appeal, reference and revision, of -
(1) The tablak or envelope containing particulars of the
case and a brief abstract of the orders in English.
2) The index.
3) The petition of appeal or revision or letter of reference.
4) Any additional evidence taken under the orders of the
High Court on remand.
(5) Translation of police reports.
(6) Interlocutory orders of the Court.
7) Judgment and formal order of the Court, and translation
of the same.
(8) All notes in the handwriting of a Judge.
9) Copies of the judgments of the lower courts.
8. Subject to any direction by the Court to the contrary, part B of
criminal judicial record shall consist of all documents in such records
as are not indicated in the preceding rule as belonging to part A.
9. The following documents belonging to part A of a judicial record shall
be preserved permanently, namely, -


--- Page 934 ---
107
In Civil Cases

[Q))] The index.

2) The judgment of the Court.

3) The decree of the Court.

4) Unreturned deeds.

(5) One copy of the printed paper book in all cases in which a
paper book is printed and in other cases copies of the
judgments of the courts below and the memorandum of appeal
presented in the High Court.

In Criminal Cases

[Q))] The index.

2) The judgment of the Court.

3) Warrants of commitment or execution, when returned.

4) Unreturned deeds.

(5) One copy of the printed paper book in all cases in which a
paper book is printed and in other cases copies of the
judgments of the courts below and the memorandum of appeal
presented in the High Court.

10. Subject to the provisions of rule 9, the following records shall be
preserved for thirty years, namely,-

[Q))] Part Ain all original civil cases.

2) Part A of all appeals involving title to immovable property
as defined in section 3, clause 25 of Act X of 1897.

3) Part A of all appeals relating to the succession to an office
or to establish or set aside an adoption or otherwise determine
the status of an individual, and of all appeals relating to trusts
or religious endowments.

4) Part A of proceedings under Guardians and Wards Act
VIII of 1890 and Succession Act XXXIX of 1925 and all cases
connected with the custody and disposal of intestate property.

(5) Proceedings under the Divorce Act IV of 1869.*

(6) Judgments of Supreme Court of Pakistan in appeals
preferred from orders of the High Court.

7) Murder references.

8) Original criminal trials.

9) Part A of criminal appeal and reference cases relating to
cases decided by the Courts of Session, or by Magistrates
empowered under section 30, Criminal Procedure Code, and
of all cases coming under Chapters XII and XVII, Pakistan
Penal Code, to which section 75 of the Pakistan Penal Code is
applicable:


--- Page 935 ---
108
Provided that in the cases referred to in (9), (10) and (11), if
the sentence has not been fully executed, the record shall be
preserved until the return of the warrant, and shall then be
destroyed.

(10) Part A of appeals or reference under Chapter XXXII, Criminal
Procedure Code, in which the orders of the courts below have
been interfered with.

(11) Cases in which any public servant has been tried as such.

(12) Records relating to the disposal of immovable property
forfeited to Government under section 62, Pakistan Penal
Code.

(13) Part A of cases heard, in the exercise of insolvency jurisdiction
other than that conferred by Act V of 1920.

(14) Part A of criminal cases in which a lunatic is concerned unless
the lunatic shall have been subsequently tried or have died.

1. Subject to the provisions of rule 9, the following records shall be
preserved for twelve years, namely, -

Part A of civil and criminal appeals and civil and criminal reference

cases not mentioned in rule 10.

12. Subject to the provisions of rule 9, the following records shall be
preserved for six years, namely,-

Part A of the record in applications for the exercise by the Court of its

revisional jurisdiction under the Civil Procedure Code or the Code of

Criminal Procedure.

13. Part B of a judicial record and applications of a miscellaneous
character filed with such record shall be destroyed before such record
is consigned to the record-room:

Provided that, where an appeal lies to the Supreme Court of Pakistan,

part B of the record of such appeal shall be preserved until the period

for the presentation of an appeal has expired, or where an appeal has
been made, till the judgment of the Supreme Court of Pakistan, has
been communicated to the High Court:

Provided also that when a case in this Court has been dismissed for

default or heard ex-parte, part B of the record shall not be destroyed

until the expiry of six months from the date of the decision:

Provided further that a power of attorney filed in a civil appeal in which

Intra Court Appeal lies to the High Court shall be preserved until the

period for the presentation of an Intra Court Appeal has


--- Page 936 ---
109
expired, or where an appeal has been made fill the judgment therein has been

pronounced. *01

14. The period prescribed by rules 10, 11 and 12 of these rules for the
preservation of a judicial record shall be reckoned from the date of the
final order of the Court in the case.

15. A note of every judicial record destroyed under the provisions of these
rules shall be made, under the signature of the supervising officer, at
the time of destruction in the register in which the case is entered, and
also in the general index prefixed to such record.

16. (i) Documents belonging to private persons or to Government as
a party to the proceedings or which have been impounded in
the cases in which they were produced shall not be destroyed,
but shall be dealt with in the manner provided by the clauses of
this rule next following.

(ii) When the period prescribed by rules 10, 11 and 12 of these
rules for the preservation of part A of a judicial record has
expired, and before such part is destroyed all documents of the
nature specified in clause (i) of this rule shall be removed
therefrom and kept till application is made for their return.

(iii) A document shall not be returned within the period specified in
Order XIII rule 9 of the Code of Civil Procedure, until a certified
copy thereof has been delivered to be substituted for the
original, nor shall a document be returned which has been
ordered to be impounded or which has, by force of a decree or
order of the Court, become void or useless, or which is
required by law to be filed and preserved, e.g., a will under
section 294 of the Succession Act XXXIX of 1925.


--- Page 937 ---
110
2
PART 11 - REGISTERS. 5
Classification. 17% The registers of the Court shall. for the purposes of these rules, be
: divided into three classes. namely.-
A Primary, ks
B." Subsidiary, 3
{od Statistical, b
All the registers shall be maintained in English i
A. Primary. 3
Primary 18. (i) The primary registers are those which have to do directly |
and with cases filed in court. and which form an abstract of the
Periodl progress und disposal of such cases.
reservition (ii) The following primary registers shall be maintained and shall
be preserved for the period specified against each:- E
"Noof | Name of register. | Branch, | Period for which | |
Boggs] = oe _ |lobekep. 3
[7711 Civil First Appeals (Regular | Civil For ever,
- and Executions). ~~ | a }
[7727 | Civil Second Appeals "Dito Ditto. 1
| {Regular and Executions). tort oe) | :
3 Civil First Appeals from Miscellancous Ditto.
8 Orders. a seco iance
! 4 | Civil Second Appeals from | Dino | Ditto 1
! Orders. . | | Ha po
5 Civil Revisions, | Dito Ditto,
= | ER SR |
6 Civil Miscellancous. 1 bio Ditto,
i
+ PO | - et — ————
BAT = 7
| 8 Civil Originals, | Miscellaneous | Ditto,
[9 References under the Punjab | | .
) Tenancy Act and Order Dino | Twelve years. ]
XLVI. Civil Procedure Code. [| ©
| 10 © Ongmal Matnmonial cases. Ditto | For ever, 1
Il Mawimonial References. | Dito | pe .
I-A | Matrimonial Appeals Dito | Ditto. 4
|
(I A atl | =. TN .


--- Page 938 ---
111

[12 [Probate and Administration. | Miscellaneous. | Forever. |
13 Letters Patent Appeals or Ditto Ditto.
- Intra Court Appeals. **u1 oo }

14 Criminal Appeals. Criminal Ditto.

15 | Revisions. Dito Dio.
RES 2 es sosmomebe 2 J

16 | Criminal Miscellaneous. Ditto Ditto,

17 | Murder References. | Ditto | Dita. oo

|
“18 | Criminal Originals. | pine | Ditto. Co

{ 19 | Trial of European British | Dito | Ditto,
Lo (Subjects. cre
1 20 Roznamcha, Civil Twelve years. he)
| | jo
Ble ll
[22 bw. © [Criminal | Dito. She |
| 3 [RT pew Execution | Civil Forever.
First Appeals (by districts).
I~ 24 i Civil Regular and Execution Ditto Dito. Nn 1
| Second Appeals (by districts). |

25 First Appeals from Orders (by | Miscellaneous Ditto, N

districts).

26 | Second Appeals from Orders | Dito | Ditto,
[ (by districts). |
[27 [Civil Revisions (by diswicts)._| Dito | Ditto. |
| 28 Criminal Appeals (by Criminal Ditto.

| diswiets). | — I

29 Criminal Revisions (by Ditto Dino.

| districts). a. ie I,
30 | Supreme Court Civil Aj 5. | Civil Dino.
31 Supreme Court Criminal Criminal Ditto.
Appealsvtaiinl®, | | —


--- Page 939 ---
112
| 3
B. Subsidiary
Subsidiary 19. The subsidiary registers are for administrative purposes. and the
mei following shall be maintained. and shall be preserved for the period
ition and 4 - 2
period of specified against cach:-
preservation 1
[No.of [ Name of register. Bh Branch. Period for which to | ,
vegister. | _________L_____(bekept. ]
1 "| Outstation Dak Book (files). Despatch | Oneyear.
[2 Outstation Dak Book. [Dito [Diwo. 13
EH Outstation suggestion letters | Ditto i Ditto.
| | andnoticecards. —SRR. RT SEE
4 Station Dak Book. Dito Dito. 3
Despatch Diary (Number Ditto “| Five years, 3
Book). Co IE — 1
6 Rew of files in all cases Dito Three years. E
(Record Registers). | __ ____ 1 =.
7 Issue Diary (Divisional | Despatch | Five years. a
Registers). | — 3
8 Postal Receipts. Despatch One year. b
9 ~ | Ledger of Samp Account. | Ditto ~ | Five years. i
10 | Centificate for refund of Civil Twelve years. 3
| stamp duty (Appeals). 1
EE Certificate for refund of Miscellaneous | Dito. i
stamp duty (Revisions). bp
137 | Certificate for refund of fine. | Criminal Ditto. [
13 1 Receipt of Records. Miscellancous | Three years.
FE BP, NS——
14 ms fees realized. Civil ['welve years. 1
15 Process fees realized. Miscellaneous | Ditto. 3
16 Cause Book for Division Cause Register One year
|__| Bencheases(CiviD. Clerk | 4
[17 | Cause Book for Single Bench | Cause Register | One year,


--- Page 940 ---
113
Lo ease Civil [Clerk | I
[18 | Cause Book for Division | Dito Ditto.
| Bench Criminal cases, S-— I
wo | Cause Book for Single Bench | Dino | Ditto,
| Criminal cases. I Sia |
[20 | Incomplete cases of expired | Civil | Dito |
dates. oe de ee
F121 | Incomplete cases of expired — Dito.
bo fdas. pe I. EE
TT © —
23 | Remand cases. | Miscellancous | Ditto. |
| I
E23 | Rémand cases. © Crimmnal { Dito.
e— : SE os
B Petition Cause Book. | Civil | Dito. 1
[3 [Petition Cause Book. | Miscelfancous neous | Ditto. we
A SSMS fois | CL = ORT 50
EF Petition Cause Book. Criminal Dito, a ha
i Poe
I. I Sr BR ae Ef
128 SS Order Book (Printing | Civil Five years, Mics |
foo— i fecofFistAppeals). | ~~ =
® Deposit Order Book (1and II | Ditto Ditto.
— [Appealsboth). | MSIF Sot
30 Deposit Order Book. Miscellaneous | Ditto.
| | |
£0 Co [epos it Order Book | Crminal Dino, oo
FI gi Order Book (Refund | Civil Dio. |
of Process fees in First |
PO (ep SU |
ES Payment Order Book. Dito — Ditto, |
. land Il Appealsboth). As: |
34 Payment Order Book. | Miscellaneous | Dino. !
EP A Ne ER cet
35 Payment Order Book. f Criminal | Ditto. |
|
36 Cases given on requisition. | Civil | Three wel |
37 Cases given on requisition. Miscellancous | Ditto, Bi
38 | Cases given on requisition. ~ | Criminal Dit. oo —
| | |
Lo 1 ee | I


--- Page 941 ---
114
14
f 39 Causes laid before the T Criminal One year.
| Registrar (Reported cases). | Co i
{ 40 | Receipt Diary | Miscellaneous | Twelve years. |
fr ee ]
[a1 Issue (Baramdagi) Book. | Judicial Five years. |
L_ ATI | Record EE
| 42 Cases in which memo of costs | Civil For ever. 1
{ooo lisprepared |
[5 Cases in which memo of costs | Miscellaneous | Ditto. 1
_ lsprepwed |
43-A Kaifiat Register. Judicial Twelve years.
eo  JRecod
44 Civil Index. Dito For ever.
I Criminal Index. Ditto Ditto. ]
46 Probate Index. Ditto Ditto.
E Index of Mawimonial cases. 1 Ditto Ditto. |
ET Register of Division Bench i One year, oo
[and Full Benchcases. | | =
49 Register of Single Bench | Dito Dito.
covey. _
50 Inspection of records. | Inspection Ditto.
oo a Clerk SEN—
51 Register for urgent petitions. | D.R.R. Ditto. |
52 Single Bench Cause Register | Cause Register | Six years.
RE veal Fe |
53 Single Bench Cause Register | Ditto Ditto.
oo for Civil Revisions. | . cae
54 Single Bench Cause Register | Ditto Dito.
| for Criminal Appeals. __ ie {
55 Single Bench Cause Register Ditto Ditto. |
| for Criminal Revisions. |
56 Single Bench Cause Register | Ditto Ditto.
_forCivil References. | | ——
57 | Single Bench Cause Register | Ditto Ditto. 1
| for Civil Miscellaneous 1 |
I | Applications. _ . 4
[8 | Division Bench Cause Dito Ditto.
Register for Civil Appeals |
and Income-tax cases.


--- Page 942 ---
115
|
io | Division Bench Cause | Cause Register | Six years.
| Register for Letters Patent Clerk |
| Appeals or Intra Court | |
a Appeals **01. es Jor | B |
60 Division Bench Cause Ditto Ditto. |
| Register for Criminal cases | I
i | Division Bench Cause Ditto Ditto. |
| Register for Life
| | Imprisonment Appeals and | | |
| | Murder References, | I J
§ [62 | Register for Special and Full | Dito | Ditto, |
= Bencheases. | | =
F163 | Register for Matrimonial and | Ditto | Ditto.
Supreme Court cases and !
cases under Legal |
| | Practitioners and Bar i
_|ComcisAeec |
64 Petition Register | Ditto Twelve years, =
0) le
[6s | Actual date register. "Ditto Six years. Ty E
|; [66 Cause Lists (Weekly and | Ditto Oneyear. i |
Ll pail Ess td
67 Wark performed by Copyists. | Judgment Five years,
|. . B | Copy Section . i
| 68 | Distribution of cases 10 Dino One year.
_|Copyists. : . N }
ad | Cases sent to Civil Branch | Ditto Ditto. |
| after completion. oo I
70 Cases sent to Miscellancous | Ditto Ditto |
—{Brnchafler completion. | |
7 Cases sent to Criminal Branch | Ditto Ditto,
—— |aftercompletion. | |
7” | Copies supplied to the Editors | Ditto Ditto,
be fof Law Journals . | B i. |
73 Copies sent to Bar Dino Ditto. |
| _ Association, | |
74 | Copies sent 10 RK. Judicial. | Dine f For ever. !
E | Check Book showing the Dito One year,
[ receipts of stationery and its |
| consumption. |
|
L | | _—


--- Page 943 ---
116
[76 | Disposal of applications Supply T Three vears. |
| nea locally. { Section |
{ | |
[7m | Disposal of applications | ito "Ditto.
received by post foo
78 Ledger Book. Ditto | Five years.
- fe Agent's Cash Book. | Ditto Ditto.
"80 | Account of copies seat per Ditto | Ditto.
| v.pp. |
IE] Money orders received from | Ditto =
PL ET | SS, |
£7) Amounts refunded by Money | Ditto | Dito.
|_| Onderto applicants. oo
83 Applications given to the Ditto Ditto.
Tracers. a
84 Account of copies sent to Ditto Ditto,
BN Legal Remembrancer.
85 Paper Books received for Assistant One year.
copy. Examiner's
{ Section
86 Letters Patent Appeals or Ditto Dito,
Intra Court Appeals sent to
the Reader 10 Deputy :
Registrar or Miscellaneous |
| Branch**0]. ee]
87 Cases sent to Despatcher for | Ditto I Ditto.
issuing letters, etc. I ME S——
88 Notice Cases sent to Ditto Ditto,
Despatcher for issuing notices
with grounds of appeal or |
revision. |
89 First Appeal Register, | Translating Ditto,
—— Department =
90 Daily Receipt Register (First | Ditto Ditto, x
| Appeals and Petitions), ee ile, =
91 Ledger of Translators. Ditto Ditto.
92 1 Deposit Receipt Books. —- Three years
[ = PERS SN | timate]


--- Page 944 ---
117
E03 [ Deposit Account Books. | Translating | Forever.
F ! Department
[9% |CashBook(Daily). Die |Oneyer,
[95 [PaymentOrderBook. [Dito Forever. .
NED Press requisition forms book. | Criminal Oneyear.
I 97 Printed records. “civil Five years.
| — SN A IES . SER
I 98 | Supreme Court cases. | Civil Ditto,
I 199 1 Daily out-tum of work done Translating | One year.
lL |byCopyist. Department | ~
100 1 Daily outturn of work done by | Civil and Ditto.
i. _| Proof Examiner. Criminal |
ol Index Register of has-tay | Judicial Six years.
| containing cases dealt with in | Record
the Judicial Destruction
fo (Branch. Soli. eBRess
| 102 Receipt Diary of letters. General For ever.
[103 | Casual leave for Provincial [JOB ~~ | Three years,
[| civil Serviee. els oda
104 | Index to Punjab Govt. Ditto For ever
| Gazette, Part-1. relating to |
| history of Judicial Officers
and Magistrates. powers. 8
| posting. ete. |
105 | #%%, [Omitted] oo }
106 Charge reports of Judicial JjoB Three years.
| |Bunchpcs A.
| 107 Consumption of service post | All Branches | Five years.
—- cards. B .
[08 Form Stock Book. [fo Ten years.
= Stationery Stock Book. | Dito Ditto.
110 | Typewriter Stock Book. Ditto | Forever, oT
nr Advocates’ Register. Dito | Dino.
2 [homed |
113 Vakils’ Register. | General For ever.
114 Mukhtars™ Register. Ditto Ditto.
115 | Petition-writers' Register. | Ditto. | Ditto.


--- Page 945 ---
118
| 16 | Despatch Register, |General [Forever :
17 Register of Legal Dita | Ditto,
bo [re Clerks. | 5 I oS
| 118 Issue Book Register of | Ditto | Ditto,
| Record-Kecper. foe oo i
RIL | Register of allotment for Building Ditto. i
| | Judicial buildings. lock-ups | |
a | and mortuaries. : I. a
[120 Accession Book. Library Ditto. 18
1121 | Issue Register. - | Dito | Three years.
[122 | Journals Receipt Register. | Ditto [Oneyear. |
[ 123 | Correction Slips Number Ditto | I'en years. 4
SL I — ——
| 124 | Correction Slips Receipt Ditto One year. :
Regier. |] | E—
bs Distribution ofbooks. "| Dito | Dino. :
126 Register of hooks in Courts Readers For ever. bh
Cand Chamber, | WE
| 127 Check Books. | All Branches | Two years. E
L128 | Diary Receipt Registers. | Dito For ever, i
129 ! Service Appeals Register. | Establishment | Forever. 1
P—— C. Statistical 3
registers. 20. The statistical registers are for purposes of preparing the monthly i
definition and and annual returns of the Court. and the following shall he
edb maintained and shall be preserved for the period specified against A
each:-
No.of | Name of register. Nn “Thy whom kept. | Period for which | 3
register. | re | SE | to be kept
I | Average duration of Civil | Staustical Clerk | Twelve years.
Appeal, | 1S ee b
2 | Average duration of Criminal Ditto | Dito, 3
| Appeals and Revisions. I~ BR) NES
3 Average duration of Murder Ditto Dio.
eas | References. = 3
I 4 ***01 [Omitted] Co . / B g
Jase 3 | Disposal by a Bench. | Statistical Clerk | Ditto, | <4
| 6 Register of pending Civil | Ditto | Ditto. IE |
L | Appeals. oir — - | i
| 7 Work done by Judges sitting in Ditto Dito. k
J! | Chambers. _ d EU | P— i
| 8. | Court-fees realized. | Institution a. Ditto. |
Es l i NS FE = = - |
k
|


--- Page 946 ---
119
| PART IV - OTHER PAPERS.
; A. Periodical returns,
fEnodical 21. (a) The following returns shall be preserved for ome year and then
ims.
of destroyed:-
vation,
1 Monthly Index of judicial correspondence.
¢ Quarterly. [List of unanswered references
|Coinage statements submitted hy
[District Ce-Ordination Officer.
> | Probate steiements submitted by
| District Judges.
(b) The following returns shall be preserved for wo years and then
destroyed: -
a af]
i Monthly. [Statement of Civil and Criminal work
! {of District and Sessions Courts. 3
[District Civil and Criminal statements. |
Annual. Probate statements submitted by District Judges.
f (¢) The following returns shall be preserved for three years and
then destroyed: -
|
I | Budget estimates.
| [District Civil and Criminal statements,
Annual. [Manuseript copies of all annual reports
[recerved from District Courts.
| Note: (1) Correspondence connected with the
abave retums will be destroyed at the same time. except
such as may be of importance, which will be preserved for
another year
(2) The general statements compiled in the Hish
Court office for the preparation of the Civil and Criminal
reports, as well as the general statement of Civil and
Criminal work. will be preserved for ten years and then
destroyed. The general monthly statements of the work of
District Courts will be preserved for the same period


--- Page 947 ---
120
B. Correspondence.
22. The following will be preserved for one year and then destroyed:-
(i) Reminders.
(ii) Charge certificates.
(iii) Letters asking for circulars, almanacs, copies of rules,
petitions for employment, private letters and petitions asking for
information regarding rules or the practice of the Court and such
like.
(iv) Arrear statements.
(v) Personal files of all officers and other staff of Government,-
(a) who die while in service, shall be preserved for
three years after their death and then destroyed,
provided there are no outstanding claims on the part of
their heirs; and

(b) who have retired, shall be preserved until their death
and then destroyed, provided that no file shall be
destroyed before three years from date of retirement
when death occurs within three years of retirement.

C. Accounts.

23. Bills and vouchers will be preserved for three years and then destroyed;
in the case of sub-vouchers for Rs.25/- or under, which are not
submitted to audit, this period will, however, be reduced to one year
only. Care should be taken to ensure that no bill or voucher is
destroyed, even after the expiry of the above periods, until all audit
objections, if any, relating to it, have first been settled. Counterfoils and
miscellaneous account papers will be preserved for three years and
then destroyed. Cash books, journals and ledger accounts shall be
preserved indefinitely in the absence of special orders to the contrary.

D. Press Declarations.

24. Press declarations made under sections 4, 5 and 8 and submitted for
record in the High Court under section 6 of the Press and Registration
of Books Act, XXV of 1867 shall be destroyed after a period of one year
from the date on which the press or the periodical concerned ceased to
exist.


--- Page 948 ---
121
E. General

25. When any paper is destroyed, the letter ‘D’ shall be entered in red ink
against the entry in the register in which such paper is registered.

26. The period for which a paper is to be preserved shall be reckoned
from the Ist of January following the date which it bears, e.g., papers
of 1885, which under these rules have to be retained for one year, will
become liable to destruction after the 31% December, 1886.


--- Page 949 ---
122
PART D RULES REGARDING INSPECTION, SUPPLY OF COPIES,

PROTECTION AND PRIVILEGE OF DOCUMENTS RELATING TO

THE SPECIAL OFFICIAL RECEIVER IN THE PUNJAB PROVINCE.*

1. The records of the Special Official Receiver have been classified under
the following four heads:-

I. Insolvency Court Judicial Records.

11. High Court Executive Records.

1. Official Records of the Special Official Receiver.

IV. Other papers not falling in any of the above categories.

The details of first three Heads are given in the Appendix to this

Chapter.

2. The rules for inspection and copies given in Chapters 5-A and 5-B of
this Volume shall apply to the records falling under Head- I.

3. No hard and fast rules have been framed for inspection and copies of
records falling under Head- Il. Each case shall be decided on its own
merits under the order of the Judge for the time being in charge of
liquidation work in the High Court and, in his absence, the
Administration Judge.

4. Copies of final orders of the Special Official Receiver which form part of
his official records, other than judicial records, falling under Head- lll,
may be granted by him:

Provided that no copies of documents shall be supplied to any person,

not entitled to them by law, between whom and Government there is any

likelihood of litigation, except with the previous sanction of the Judge in
charge of liquidation work in the High Court and, in his absence, the

Administration Judge.

Note: (i) Official letters are privileged documents to copies of which no

person has any claim whatever. Should it be desirable to grant
a copy of letter, or an extract of a letter, received by the Special
Official Receiver from a superior officer, reference shall in every
case be made to the superior officer for permission.

(iii The refusal of the Special Official Receiver to supply copies
shall be subject to revision by the Judge in charge of liquidation
work and, in his absence, the Administration Judge.

5. Inspection of official records of the Special Official Receiver falling
under Head- Ill shall be allowed only under his orders. The order of


--- Page 950 ---
123
the Special Official Receiver refusing inspection shall be subject to
revision by the Judge in charge of liquidation work and, in his absence,
the Administration Judge.

6. The rules for inspection and supply of copies of the official records of
the Special Official Receiver (rules 4 and 5 above) shall also apply to
the inspection and supply of copies of papers falling under Head -IV.

7. In examining the question of claiming protection and privilege for
documents relating to the office of Special Official Receiver, he shall be
guided by the provisions of the Qanun-e-Shahadat, 1984. In case of any
doubt, the Special Official Receiver shall take the orders of the Judge in
charge of liquidation work and, in his absence, the Administration
Judge.*


--- Page 951 ---
124
APPENDIX
CLASSIFICATION LIST OF RECORDS OF THE SPECIAL OFFICIAL RECEIVER.
IL Insolvency Court Judicial Records.
(a)

1. Order of transfer of insolvency proceedings to the High
Court.

2. Order of the Insolvency Judge with regard to a claim.

3. Declaration of dividend with Schedule.

(b)

1. Monthly Schedule of expenditure as approved by the
Judge.

2. Audit objection upon which judicial decision has been
given.

3. Any objection as to expenses of counsel engaged by the
Special Official Receiver when determined judicially.

(c)

1. Application of a creditor for notice to others.

2. Application of adjournment.

3. Directions obtained from the Judge.

4. Orders regarding transfer of property including the
recommendation made by the Special Official Receiver on which
such orders are passed and the applications of private persons
from which such orders arise.

5. Orders of notice of creditors about dividend.

(d)

1. Claim petition by a creditor under section 80 of the Provincial
Insolvency Act.

2. Power of attorney in favour of counsel on behalf of the
creditor.

3. Letter from a petitioning creditor to the Official Receiver.

4. Account and copies of documents in proof of claim.

5. Written statement on behalf of an insolvent.

6. Written statement on behalf of an objecting creditor.

7. Affidavit in a claim petition.

8. Documents showing security filed in connection with a claim.

9. Original deed included in claim petition.

10. Copy of judicial order filed by the claimant.

11. Pronote filed by a creditor.

12. Proceedings before the Special Official Receiver with respect

to proof of claims.


--- Page 952 ---
125
I. High Court Executive Records.

1. Leave application.

2. Order regarding staff.

3. Applications from members of the staff.

4. Audit reports with comments of the Special Official
Receiver, if any.

1. Official Records of the Special Receiver.

1. Noting by the office upon the audit reports.

2. Documents relating to expenses of counsel
engaged by the Special Official Receiver to conduct
cases.

3. Correspondence with purchasers.

4. Notice (other than a statutory notice issued to
creditors) by the Special Official Receiver, including
advertisements relating to transfer of property.

5. Inspection slip.

6. Letter to counsel regarding pending suits and reply.

7. Correspondence with the Assistant to Special
Official Receiver regarding rent collection.

8. Certified copies of the judgments and decrees.

9. Notice received from Court.

10. Notice of demand of property tax.

11. Correspondence regarding repairs and estimates
thereof.

12. Correspondence regarding House tax and Municipal
tax.

13. Policies of fire insurance.


--- Page 953 ---
126
CHAPTER 6
Legal practitioners
PART A LEGAL PRACTITIONERS’ MISCONDUCT.

In exercise of the power conferred by Article 202 of the Constitution of the

Islamic Republic of Pakistan 1973, the High Court makes the following rules:-

1. Where, on the complaint of any person or otherwise, the Chief Justice or
the Court is of the opinion that an Advocate has been guilty of
misconduct or conduct unbecoming an Advocate, with regard to any
matter concerning the Court, the Chief Justice or the Court may either
after affording him an opportunity of oral hearing, take such disciplinary
action, including suspension and removal from practice of the Court,
against him as it may deem fit, or refer to the Punjab Bar Council for
inquiry and action under the Legal Practitioners and Bar Councils Act,
1973

2. An Advocate shall not appear before a Judge with whom he has any
tie or prospective tie of relationship except with the permission of the
Chief Justice.”


--- Page 954 ---
127

PARTB POWERS AND DUTIES OF ADVOCATES.

1. Subject to rules 2 to 6 below, any Advocate on the Rolls of the
Court not under suspension, may plead or act in any suit, appeal
or proceeding in which he is engaged.

2. No Advocate shall act for any person in any Court unless he has
been appointed by an instrument in writing as required by Order
Ill rule 4 of the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908, as amended by
Act XXII of 1926.

3. No Advocate who has been engaged for the purpose of pleading
only, shall plead on behalf of any person unless he has filed in
Court a memorandum of appearance or unless he has been
engaged by another Advocate duly appointed to act in Court on
behalf of such person as required by Order Ill rule 4 sub-clause
5 of the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908,as amended by Act XXII
of 1926.

4. Every appointment of an Advocate to act shall contain in full the
name of the person or, where there are more than one, of every
person who thereby appoints the Advocate to act on his behalf,
and shall be executed by every such person.

5. When such appointment or power is not executed by the
principal himself, but by some person claiming to appoint or give
authority on his behalf, the Advocate will not be recognized by
the Court without proof that such person was duly authorized by
the principal to execute such appointment or power.

6. In cross-appeals, an Advocate who has already filed a power of
attorney or memorandum of appearance for the appellant shall
not be required to file another power of attorney or memorandum
of appearance for his client as respondent in the cross-appeal.

7. Except with the special leave of the Court concerned, no
Advocate shall in his own name, or in the name or names of any
other person or persons, purchase any property or any share or
interest in any property sold in execution of a decree or order in
any suit, appeal or other proceeding in which he was, in any
way, professionally engaged.


--- Page 955 ---
128
8. Where any Advocate receives any money from his client, he
must furnish him with a statement of accounts, with receipts,
where these can be obtained, for all sums of money above
Rs.5/- disbursed on his behalf.
An Advocate shall be responsible for seeing that receipts are
furnished to a client for all sums of money received by himself or
by his clerk on his behalf. These should be signed by him and
not merely by his clerk.
9. ***[Omitted].
10. When an Advocate accepts any appointment under
Government, or in a limited liability, or other Company, or
engages in any other employment not connected with his
profession he shall forthwith give notice thereof to the High Court
Explanation: Ministers of the Government, the Speaker and
Deputy Speaker of Legislative Assembly, Parliamentary
Secretaries and Parliamentary Private Secretaries are excluded
from the operation of this rule.
11. ***[Omitted].
12. ***[Omitted].
FORM
Form of certificate of being borne on the Roll of Advocates/Vakils.
***[Omitted].


--- Page 956 ---
129
PART C THE SUSPENSION AND DISMISSAL OF ADVOCATES.
[Omitted].


--- Page 957 ---
130
PART D THE ADMISSION OF PLEADERS.
[Omitted].


--- Page 958 ---
131
PART E POWERS AND DUTIES OF PLEADERS AND MUKHTARS.
[Omitted].


--- Page 959 ---
132
PART F THE ENROLMENT AND TRANINING OF, AND RENEWAL OF
CERTIFICATES BY, PLEADERS AND MUKHTARS.
[Omitted].


--- Page 960 ---
133
PART G THE SUSPENSION AND DISMISSAL OF PLEADERS AND MUKHTARS.
[Omitted].


--- Page 961 ---
134
PARTH FILING OF POWERS-OF-ATTORNEY BY ADVOCATES.*
(a) In Subordinate Courts ___
(i) For civil cases—see Chapter 16-A, High Court Rules and
Orders, Volume |.
(ii) For criminal cases—see Chapter 25-A, High Court Rules and
Orders, Volume II.
(b) In the High Court ___
The rules are the same as given at (i) and (ji) of part (a) above except
that no person can appear, plead or act on behalf of a suitor in the
High Court unless his name is borne on the rolls of the High Court as
an Advocate. A private Pleader under section 4(r)(2) of the Code of
Criminal Procedure is also debarred from appearing in the High Court.


--- Page 962 ---
135
PART | FEES OF COUNSEL.

1. In suits for the recovery of specific property or a share of specific
property, whether moveable or immovable, or for the breach of
any contract or for damages-

(a) if the amount or value of the property, debt or damages
decreed shall not exceed rupees five thousand according
to the valuation for purposes of appeal to the Court, the
fee shall be calculated at seven and a half percent on the
amount or value decreed, but the Court may, in any case,
otherwise order and fix such percentage as shall appear
to the Court to be just and equitable;

(b) if the amount or value decreed shall exceed rupees five
thousand, the fee payable shall be calculated at such a
percentage as shall appear to the Court to be just and
equitable

2. In suits for injuries to the person or character of the plaintiff,
such as suits for assault or defamation or for injuries to property
or to enforce rights where the pecuniary value of such injury or
right cannot be exactly defined, _ as in suits for interference with
a right to light or water, or to enforce a right of pre-emption, or
suits for the partition of joint property, where partition is
improperly resisted _, if the plaintiff succeeds, the Court may
order the fee allowed to the plaintiff to be calculated with
reference either to the amount decreed or according to the
valuation of the suit or according to such sum not exceeding the
valuation, as the Court shall think reasonable and shall fix with
reference to the importance of the subject matter in dispute. In
any such case, the amount of the fee shall be calculated
according to rule.

3. If the suit be dismissed for default or upon the merits, the fee
allowed to the defendant shall be calculated according to rule 1
on the whole value of the suit.

4. If the suit shall be decreed for the plaintiff as to part only of
the claim, and as to the remainder shall be dismissed, the fee
allowed to each party should be fixed with reference to the value
of that part of the claim in respect of which he shall succeed, and
shall be calculated according to rule 1.

5. If in any suit for damages, the plaintiff succeeds as to the whole
of his cause of action, but fails to recover the full amount of


--- Page 963 ---
136

damages claimed, the defendant shall not be entitled to any
allowance for counsel in respect of the difference between the
amount of damages claimed and the amount recovered, unless
the Court shall be of opinion that the amount claimed for
damages was unreasonable or excessive and shall, for that or
any other cause, direct that a fee be allowed to the defendant.

If specially allowed, the amount of such fee shall be fixed with
reference to the amount of damages disallowed to the plaintiff
and shall be calculated according to rule 1.

6. If several defendants who have a joint or common interest
succeed upon a joint defence, or upon separate defences
substantially the same, not more than one fee shall be allowed,
unless the Court shall otherwise order. If only one fee be
allowed, the Court shall direct to which of the defendants it shall
be paid or shall apportion it among the several defendants in
such manner as the Court shall think fit.

7. If several defendants, who have separate interests, set up
separate and distinct defences and succeed thereon, a fee for
each of the defendants who shall appear by separate counsel
may be allowed in respect of his separate interest. Such fee, if
allowed, shall be calculated, with reference to the value of the
separate interest of such defendants, according to rule1.

8. In any miscellaneous proceeding or for any matter other than
that of appearing, acting or pleading in a suit prior to decree, the
fee shall be fixed by the Court with reference to the nature and
importance of the proceeding or matter

9. If a suit in the High Court, as a Court of original jurisdiction, be
undefended, the fee shall be calculated at one - half the sum
fixed for a defended suit of the same nature and value.

10. If a review be rejected after summoning the opposite party or if,
after the admission of a review, the former judgment be upheld,
the fee, if allowed to the successful party in the review, shall be
fixed by the Court at an amount which shall not in any case
exceed one-half of the amount allowed by these rules in case of
an original decree.


--- Page 964 ---
137

11. If, after the admission of a review, the former judgment be
revised, the fee in respect of the review, if allowed to the party
who succeeds in the review, shall not exceed one-half the
amount allowed by these rules in case of an original decree. The
fee allowed in respect of the review will be irrespective of any fee
which may be included in any costs in respect of the original suit
which may be adjudged to the successful party by the judgment
in review, unless the Court shall otherwise order.

12. In appeals the fee shall be calculated on the same scale as in
original suits, and the principles of the above rules as to original
suits shall be applied as nearly as may be.

13. When the interest of several appellants is joint, no more than
one fee shall be allowed, unless the Court shall otherwise order.
If one fee only be allowed, the Court shall direct to which of the
appellants it shall be paid or shall apportion it amongst the
several appellants in such proportion as it shall think fit

14. If several respondents in one appeal appear by separate
counsel, in determining whether separate fees shall be allowed,
the Court shall be guided by the principles laid down in rules 6
and 7.

15. If, in any instance, the payment of fees according to the
preceding rules shall not appear to the Court to be just and
equitable, the Court may exercise its discretion in allowing such
fee as may appear just and equitable:

Provided that in the case of a party represented by any
Advocate
(a) who is known or reputed to have any dealing,
communication or correspondence, directly or indirectly,
with a dalal or with any person who frequents any railway
station, sarai or other place as a tout or
(b) who is known or reputed to employ in any capacity
whatsoever any such person or any person who
frequents any railway station, sarai or other place as a
tout,
the Court may order that no fee be allowed to such party for
such Advocate or may, in its discretion, allow a fee for the same
not exceeding the following sums, that is to say, _


--- Page 965 ---
138
(i) In first appeals from original decrees and in
suits before the Court in the exercise of its
ordinary or extraordinary original jurisdiction,-
Rs.75/-.
(ii) In all other cases, the fee allowable under the
above rules up to a maximum of Rs.15/-.

Provided also that, if an appeal be preferred against a decree
passed on remand, the fee, if any, allowed by the Court to the
party succeeding in that appeal, shall not, unless the Court shall
otherwise order, be less than one-quarter, nor more than one-
half of the amount which would be allowed under the rules upon
an original hearing, if, by the decree remanding the case, the
same party shall have been allowed fees in respect of the former
appeal in the suit, either absolutely or conditionally upon his
succeeding upon the remand:

Provided also that if an issue be framed and referred by the
Court for trial by a lower court, the Court may, if it thinks proper,
allow to the party who shall succeed in the appeal, such sum as
the Court shall consider reasonable, not exceeding half the
amount which would be allowed under these rules in an original
case, for his fee in respect of the trial of the issue in the lower
court, in addition to a fee in respect of the appeal.

16. Notwithstanding anything contained in the rules of the Court but
subject to any order of a Judge or Judges in cases of hardship
no fee for the appearance of any Advocate shall, except as in
these rules hereinafter provided, be allowed on taxation between
party and be allowed on taxation between party and party, or
shall be included in any decree or order unless the Taxing
Officer is satisfied that the fee was paid to the Advocate before
the hearing and unless the party claiming to have such fee
allowed shall, before the hearing, file in the office of the Taxing
Officer, a certificate signed by the Advocate, as the case may be,
certifying the amount of the fee or fees actually paid by or on
behalf of his client to him or to any other Advocate in whose
place he may have appeared.

16-A The Law Officers are excluded from the operation of rule 16. It
is left to the discretion of the Court to fix a fee with reference to
the salary of the Law Officer concerned and the time taken in
the hearing.

17. Such certificate shall state,


--- Page 966 ---
139

(a) the case, matter or proceeding in respect of which
such fee or fees was or were paid;

(b) the date or dates when such fee or fees was or were
actually paid to the Advocate engaged in the case, matter
or proceeding either as the exclusive fee or fees of such
Advocate or as the fee or fees of the Advocates
associated and to be associated in the case, matter or
proceeding in the High Court;

(c) the precise amount or amounts which was or were
so paid;

(d) that no portion of such fee or fees has been
returned, and that no agreement for return or remission of
the same has been made, by the Advocate or by any one
on his behalf; and

(e) the name and address of the person who made such
payment:

- Provided that when a higher fee than is allowed by the scale is
allowed by special order of the Court, a certificate of the payment
of the additional fee at any time may be accepted, if filed before
taxation in lieu of the certificate required by these rules.

18. The certificate mentioned in rule 16 shall, so far as possible, be
in the following form:-

IN THE LAHORE HIGH COURT, LAHORE.*

Between and

For the purpose of presentation to the Taxing Officer and having my fee
allowed on taxation as against the party or parties, who may be liable for costs under
the judgment or order of Court, I, , in accordance with rule 17 of the
rules regulating the fees of counsel in the Court, hereby certify that in the
above
the following fees were paid to me as my exclusive fee (or as my fee as well as
that of who was associated/were to be associated with me in
the case) on the dates and by the person or persons specified below,
and that no portion of such fees has been returned and that no
agreement for such return or remission has been made by


--- Page 967 ---
140
me or by any one on my behalf or on behalf of who was/were
associated with me in the case:-
Matter. Fee. Date of payment. By whor| Address of person
paid. who actually made
such payment.
Signature
Date of Signature
Address of Advocate
Filed on the day of by
Note: In the certificates of fees filed by the legal practitioners engaged
by Government in cases in which the Federal or Provincial Government
is a party, it is sufficient to certify that a fee has been fixed (not paid) by
the Solicitor to Government, Punjab. The same procedure may, by a
resolution of the Judges in meeting, be extended to counsel appearing
on behalf of an Official Liquidator appointed by the High Court.

19. Counsel engaged in matrimonial causes in the High Court should, when
filing a certificate required by rule 16, submit a detail of the work done or
to be done by them for which they have charged their clients. Only those
charges which are necessary to enable the parties to conduct the
litigation will be allowed by the Taxing Officer who will bear in mind that
the object in giving costs is to indemnify the successful party against the
expenses to which he has been put by the unsuccessful party. The
maximum fee in a defended matrimonial cause shall be Rs. 1,500/-; and
half that amount in undefended causes, provided that the Judge, who
tries the case, may allow the full fee in an undefended cause, should the
nature of the work done by counsel warrant it.

Note: For rules regarding fees of counsel in subordinate courts, see Chapter 16-B,

High Court Rules and Orders, Volume |.


--- Page 968 ---
141
PART J CLERKS OF LEGAL PRACTITIONERS.

1. No person shall be employed by a legal practitioner as his clerk
unless such person has been a legal practitioner's clerk for three
years, or is a qualified petition-writer, or has passed the
Matriculation Examination of a recognized University or a Board:

Provided that no such person shall be employed as a
clerk-
(a) if he has been declared a tout; or
(b) if he is an undischarged insolvent; or
(c) if he has been convicted for an offence involving
moral turpitude; or
(d) if he has been dismissed from the service of
Government, unless he can show that his dismissal was
not due to conduct showing him unfit to be legal
practitioner's clerk, viz., corruption or some other reason
involving dishonesty; or
(e) if he is an ex-petition-writer, whose license has been
cancelled for corruption or for some other reason
involving dishonesty; or
f) if he is unfit to be a legal practitioner's clerk for any
other sufficient reason.
Dismissed Local Council employees shall be regarded as
dismissed “Government servants” for the purposes of
these rules.”
Notes: (i) The rule shall apply to all persons engaged
after the 20" November, 1936, but not to a person who
was a legal practitioner's clerk on or before the 20"
November, 1936, and who may be engaged by a legal
practitioner after the 20" November, 1936, provided
(a) that his service subsequent to that
date is continuous; and
(b) that his work is satisfactory as
certified by his last employer.
(ii) The proviso shall apply to clerks already in the
service of legal practitioners, who have been declared
touts at any time, or who were convicted within five years
before the 20™ November, 1936, for an offence involving
moral turpitude.


--- Page 969 ---
142
(iii) The proviso shall not apply to clerks already in the
service of legal practitioners who have been dismissed
from Government service.

(iv) The proviso shall not apply to clerks already in
the service of legal practitioners who have been
convicted, but whose conviction took place more than five
years before the 20" November, 1936.

(v) The proviso that no person shall be employed as
a clerk if he is an undischarged insolvent shall apply to
clerks already in the service of legal practitioners.

2. No literate person shall be employed at all as a
legal practitioner's clerk.
Note: A literate person for purposes of this rule will be one who
has some knowledge of English or preferably Urdu as being the
Court language in the Punjab.

3. Not more than two clerks shall be appointed or retained by any
legal practitioner.

4. The names of such clerks shall be communicated by each legal
practitioner, who is a member of a Bar Association, to the
Secretary of that Association. A legal practitioner who is not a
member of any Bar Association and cannot under the rules
framed by the High Court be compelled to join the Bar
Association, shall communicate the names of his clerks direct to
the District Judge.

5. The Secretary shall prepare a list of the clerks employed by the
legal practitioners and send it to--

(a) the District Judge, or
(b) the Presiding Officer of the Superior Civil Court
sitting at the place where the Association is.

6. Such list shall be submitted in the first week of January each
year, any changes during the course of the year being intimated
separately.

7. No clerk shall be recognized by the courts unless his name is
borne on this list.


--- Page 970 ---
143

8. Clerks mentioned in the list shall be entitled to act on behalf of
their masters, but on their responsibility, in all transactions which
have to be done before or with the ministerial staff of the Court.

9. A copy of the list when received and of the changes notified
shall be supplied to all courts situated at the station for
information.

10. The list shall be in the following form:-

(a) name and parentage of the clerk,
(b) name of the legal practitioner by whom engaged,
(c) qualifications, i.e., whether—

(i) Matriculate,

(ii) petition-writer,

(iii) has three years’ service with a legal
practitioner, with a certificate that the clerk has
never been—

(a) dismissed from Government service,

(b) convicted of an offence involving moral
turpitude,

(c) declared a tout,

(d) declared an insolvent, if so, whether
discharged or undischarged.

11. A District Judge (and not a Bar Association) shall have power to
declare a person to be unfit for employment as a legal
practitioner's clerk and to remove his name from the list of
approved clerks to legal practitioners.

12. A clerk whose name has been removed by a District Judge
may appeal to the High Court, which may, if it thinks fit, alter or
revise the orders passed by the District Judge.


--- Page 971 ---
144
CHAPTER 7
Rules under Special Acts
PART A (a) RULES TO REGULATE THE PROCEDURE IN THE CASE OF
APPLICATIONS TO SET ASIDE ORDERS OF FORFEITURE PASSED
BY THE PROVINCIAL GOVERNMENT UNDER SECTION 99-A OF
THE CODE OF CRIMINAL PROCEDURE MADE BY HIGH COURT
UNDER SECTION 99-F.

1. Every application to the High Court under section 99-B of the
Code of Criminal Procedure, 1898, to set aside an order of forfeiture
under section 99-A of the Code, shall be made by the presentation of a
petition which shall be signed by the applicant and verified at the foot by
the affidavit of the applicant.

2. The petition shall be written in the English language on foolscap
paper and divided into paragraphs, numbered consecutively. Dates and
sums occurring in the petition shall be expressed in figures.

3. The petition shall be headed:

“In the Lahore High Court, Lahore, and shall be entitled

“In the matter of the:-

(name or description of book, document or newspaper as the case may
be)

4. The petition shall state what the interest of the applicant is in the
property in respect of which the order of forfeiture has been made and
all documents or copies thereof in proof of such interest together with a
copy of the notice of forfeiture under section 99-A of the Code of
Criminal Procedure, 1898, shall be annexed as exhibits to the petition.

5. The petition shall state the ground or grounds on which it is sought
to set aside the order of forfeiture.

6. The applicant shall, with his petition, attach a receipt for a deposit
of Rs.100/- to cover the cost of printing the record.

7. All vernacular documents annexed as exhibits
to the petition and all vernacular documents relied
on by the applicant and intended to be in


--- Page 972 ---
145
evidence, shall be translated into English by an official translator or
translators.

8. The petition with exhibits annexed thereto and their translations, if
any, together with a copy of such petition and exhibits with translations
shall be presented to the Deputy Registrar, who will lay the same before
the Chief Justice. The Chief Justice will then constitute a Special Bench
and appoint a day for the hearing and determination of the application.

9. The Deputy Registrar shall forthwith give notice of the filing of the
application to the Advocate-General and shall request him to obtain from
Government and to furnish to the Court, as soon as possible, a copy of
the particular newspaper, book or other document containing the words,
signs or visible representations on which the declaration of forfeiture
was based.

10. Evidence in support of or against the petition shall be in the form of
affidavits. The Advocate-General shall within fifteen days of the receipt
of the notice mentioned in rule 9, file affidavits on behalf of the State and
supply copies thereof to the other side. The applicant shall, within fifteen
days of the receipt of copies of the affidavits, file his affidavits and
likewise supply the Advocate-General with copies. *01

11. Notice in writing of the day appointed for the hearing and determination
of the application shall be given by the Deputy Registrar to the Chief
Secretary to the Government of the Punjab, and the copy of the petition
and exhibits with translations, if any, mentioned in rule 8 shall
accompany such notice. *01

12. A printed paper-book shall be prepared and completed under the orders
of the Deputy Registrar at least one week before the day fixed for
hearing and determination of the application.

13. There shall ordinarily be printed 30 copies of the paper-book, but the
Deputy Registrar may, when necessary, direct a larger number to be
printed.

14. In the absence of a special order, the printed paper-book shall ordinarily
contain-

[Q))] the declaration of forfeiture in respect of which the
application is made;

2) the application and the affidavit of the applicant;

3) the exhibits annexed to the application, or their translation;


--- Page 973 ---
146

4) the affidavits filed under rule 10 and a reprint of such portions of
the prescribed publications (translated into English, if in
vernacular, in accordance with rule 7) to be indicated by the
parties within 15 days of the receipt of the notice which will be
issued by the Deputy Registrar to the applicant, or his counsel, if
any, and the Advocate-General.
Note: The cost of printing (1) , (2) and (3) will be met by the
applicant out of the deposit made under rule 6 and the cost of (4)
will be borne by the party concerned.

15. If the deposit required under rule 6 proves insufficient to cover the cost
of the printed paper-book, the Deputy Registrar may, by a notice in
writing, require that such further deposit, as seems to him necessary,
shall be made within one week.

16. If such further deposit be not made within the time specified in the
notice, the application shall be placed, without notice to the applicant,
before a Special Bench composed of three Judges which will either
dismiss the application or pass such other order as may be suitable.

17. The applicant and his counsel and the Advocate-General shall be
entitled to receive copies of the printed record on application to the
Deputy Registrar one week before the date fixed for hearing.

18. At the foot of every printed-book shall be noted the amount of the
printing and incidental charges and the person from whom levied, and
such amount shall be included in the costs of the proceedings unless
the Court shall otherwise direct.

Should the amount so charged be less than the sum or sums deposited
under rules 6 and 15, the Deputy Registrar shall refund the balance to
the applicant.

19. The table of fees now in force in this Court shall be applicable to all
applications under section 99-B of the Code of Criminal Procedure and
proceedings thereon and costs payable in respect of such applications
and proceedings shall be taxed, when so directed, by the Taxing Officer
of this Court.

20. The provisions of the Code of Civil Procedure and the Rules and
Orders relating to the execution of decrees shall be applicable to the
execution of orders passed by the High Court on applications under
section 99-B of the Code of Criminal Procedure.


--- Page 974 ---
147
PART A(b).
RULES TO REGULATE THE PROCEDURE IN THE CASE OF
APPLICATIONS TO SET ASIDE ORDERS FOR THE DEPOSIT OF
SECURITY UNDER SECTION 3(3) OR 7(3) OR OF FORFEITURE
UNDER SECTION 4,6,8,10,12(2) OR 19 OF THE INDIAN PRESS
(EMERGENCY POWERS) ACT, 1931.
*+01[Omitted]


--- Page 975 ---
148
PART B RULES REGARDING APPLICATION UNDER SECTION 136

OF THE INCOME TAX ORDINANCE, 1979.*

Rules made by the High Court under Article 202 of the Constitution of

the Islamic Republic of Pakistan, 1973 and clause 27 of the Letters

Patent to regulate proceedings of the applications, hearing and

decisions under section 136 of the Income Tax Ordinance, 1979.

1. Every application under section 136(2) of the Income Tax Ordinance,
1979, hereinafter referred to as “the Ordinance” requiring the High Court
to frame a question of law shall contain the following:-

(i) A brief statement of facts and point of law which in the
estimate of the applicant the Income Tax Appellate Tribunal has
erroneously refused to refer to the High Court.

(ii) An affidavit of the applicant in support of the facts stated in
the above application.

(iii) Copy of the application made to the Income Tax Appellate
Tribunal under section 136(1) and its order refusing to refer the
question of law to the High Court.

(iv) Copy of the first/basic/assessment order.

(v) Copy of the order of the Commissioner or Income tax
(Appeals)/Appellate Additional Commissioner and the grounds
of appeal.

(vi) Copy of the appellate order of the Income Tax Appellate
Tribunal along with grounds of appeal.

(vii) Copies of such other documents or statements as may be
relevant and necessary for the understanding of the point of law

on which the decision is desired by the applicant.
Note:- In this rule the word “copy” or “copies” means “certified
copy”

2. Every application under section 136 (2-A) of the Ordinance made to the
High Court shall be accompanied by a copy of the application made to
the Tribunal together with a copy of the order of the Tribunal and such
other document(s) as may show that the application made to the
Tribunal was within time or should be treated as such.*

3. Every application under sub-sections (2) and (2-A) of section 136 of the
Ordinance shall be in the form prescribed herein below:-


--- Page 976 ---
149
FORM
In the matter of Income Tax Ordinance, 1979.
P.T.R/T.R. No. OF 20.....
Name of the assessees.
The Commissioner of Income Tax.
<.ee......Applicant.
Versus.
The Commissioner of Income Tax.
Name of the assessees.
.........Respondent.*

4. If the Court hearing the application does not reject it in limine, a notice shall be
issued to the Assessee or the Income-tax Commissioner, as the case may be,
to show cause against the application.

5. Counsel presenting an application under section 136(2) of the Income Tax
Ordinance, 1979, shall be bound to accept service on behalf of his client of any
notices issued by the High Court until the case has been finally disposed of or a
change of counsel has been notified to the Court.*

6. ***[Omitted]

7. ***[Omitted].

8. The Court hearing applications under section 136(2) of the Income Tax
Ordinance, 1979, or deciding cases stated and referred to under the Ordinance
shall be a Bench of two Judges unless the Chief Justice orders that any
application or reference shall be heard by a Bench of more than two Judges.

9. At the hearing of such applications and cases the Court and the parties shall
be at liberty to refer to the whole of the contents of the documents annexed
thereto.


--- Page 977 ---
150
PART C (a) RULES UNDER SECTION 1 (4), UNDER INDIAN AND
COLONIAL DIVORCE JURISDICTION ACT, 1926-[MADE BY
THE SECRETARY OF STATE IN COUNCIL FOR INDIA, WITH
THE CONCURRENCE OF THE LORD CHANCELLOR, UNDER
THE INDIAN AND COLONIAL DIVORCE JURISDICTION ACT,
1926 (16 AND 17 GEO. 5)]

(b) POWERS DELEGATED TO THE REGISTRAR UNDER THE
INDIAN AND COLONIAL DIVORCE JURISDICTION ACT,
1926.

[Omitted].


--- Page 978 ---
151
PART D RULES MADE BY THE HIGH COURTS UNDER THE POWERS
CONFERRED BY SECTION 246 OF THE INDIAN COMPANIES ACT,
1913, CONCERNING THE MODE OF PROCEEDINGS TO BE HAD FOR
WINDING UP A COMPANY IN THE HIGH COURT.
“[Omitted]


--- Page 979 ---
152

PART E RULES MADE BY THE HIGH COURT UNDER SECTION 77 OF THE
TRADE MARKS ACT, V OF 1940, (PUBLISHED IN PUNJAB GAZETTE,
PART Ill, DATED THE 10™ AUGUST,1945, AS CORRECTED BY
CORRIGENDUM NO.210-R/XVI-A-96, DATED THE 12™ SEPTEMBER
1945, PUBLISHED IN PART Ill, DATED THE 14™ SEPTEMBER 1945,
AND IN THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, PART I-A, DATED THE 1°"
SEPTEMBER 1945, AS CORRECTED BY CORRIGENDUM NO.F.-
4(8)/45-GENL., DATED THE 3° OCTOBER 1945, PUBLISHED IN
PART II-A, DATED THE 13™ OCTOBER 1945).

1. (a) In these Rules ‘the Act’ means the Trade Marks Act, 1940.

(b) ‘The Registrar’ means the Registrar of Trade Marks and includes
the Deputy Registrar of Trade Marks.

(a) ‘The Deputy Registrar (Judicialmeans the Deputy
Registrar (Judicial) of the Lahore High Court, Lahore.

(b) ‘Judge’ means the Judge nominated by the Chief Justice
for the purpose.

2. Applications, affidavits and proceedings under the Act shall be instituted
in the matter of the Trade Marks Act, V of 1940 and in the matter of the
Trade Mark.

3. All applications and appeals under the Act shall be made by petition
supported by affidavit and shall be presented to the Deputy Registrar
(Judicial).

4. The Deputy Registrar (Judicial) shall lay the petition before the Judge
who may either accept the petition and direct notice thereof to be given
to the opposite party or may reject it summarily or may make such order
as the circumstances of the case may require.

5. All applications to the Court whether by way of appeal or otherwise shall
be served on the Registrar who shall have a right to appear and be
heard and shall appear if so directed by the Court

6. If any application or appeal is made to the High Court under the Act and
any suit or other proceeding concerning the Trade Mark in question is
pending before the High Court or any District Court, the High Court may
stay such suit or proceeding until the disposal of the said application or
appeal.

7. Where the Registrar makes a reference to the High Court under section
72(b) of the Act, he shall give notice of that fact to the parties
concerned. After the Registrar has filed the reference, the Deputy
Registrar (Judicial) shall fix a date for the hearing of the same and


--- Page 980 ---
153
shall put it on the list of the Judge on such date for disposal. The
Registrar shall give seven days’ notice of the day so fixed to the parties
concerned.

8. Where under section 76(2) of the Act, an applicant becomes entitled
and intends to withdraw his application, he shall give notice of the
intention in writing to the Registrar and to the other parties, if any, to the
appeal within one month after the leave referred to in that section has
been obtained. He shall also give notice to the Deputy Registrar
(Judicial) who shall thereupon forthwith place the appeal on the list for
disposal.

9. A defendant in a suit for infringement filed in the High Court may in
regard to any registered trade mark in issue counterclaim for the
rectification of the register and shall within the time limited for the
delivery of the counter-claim serve the Registrar with the same, and the
Registrar shall be entitled to take such part in the suit as he may think fit
without delivering a defence or other pleading.

10. A certified copy of every order directing rectification of the register shall
be sent by the Deputy Registrar (Judicial) to the Registrar who shall
thereupon rectify the register accordingly. The cost of the certified copy
shall be borne by the applicant or the appellant, as the case may be.

11. In cases not provided for in the foregoing rules, the provisions of the
Code of Civil Procedure, 1908, and the Rules and Forms of the Lahore
High Court, Lahore, shall apply, mutatis mutandis, to all proceedings
under the Act.

12. Process fees shall be charged according to the Table of Fees for the
High Court given in Chapter 5-B, High Court Rules and Orders,
Volume IV.


--- Page 981 ---
154
PART F RULES MADE BY THE HIGH COURT UNDER CLAUSE 27
OF THE LETTERS PATENT TO REGULATE PROCEEDINGS
OF APPLICATIONS AND REFERENCES UNDER SECTIONS
59-A AND 59-B OF THE ESTATE DUTY ACT. ACT X OF
1950. AS INSERTED BY ACT NO. XV OF 1953.
[Omitted].


--- Page 982 ---
155
CHAPTER 8
PRIVY COUNCIL CASES.
[Omitted]


--- Page 983 ---
156
CHAPTER 9
FEDERAL COURT APPEALS.
[Omitted]


--- Page 984 ---
157
CHAPTER 10
Miscellaneous
PART A RULES FOR THE DISPOSAL OF EXECUTIVE AND ADMINISTRATIVE
BUSINESS.

1. The administrative and executive work of the High Court shall be

controlled by a Committee of Judges to be known as the Administration
Committee:
Provided that those matters which are the exclusive concern of the
Chief Justice, namely, the constitution of Benches and the appointment
and control of the High Court Establishment shall be dealt with in
accordance with such instructions as may from time to time be issued by
the Chief Justice.”

2. The Administration Committee shall consist of seven Judges. The Chief
Justice and the Senior Puisne Judge shall be ex-officio members and
the Chief Justice shall annually nominate the other five members of the
Committee.

3. At all meetings of the Administration Committee, three Judges shall form
a quorum.

4. (a) Each member of the Administration Committee shall act as an
Administration Judge and the powers and duties of each
Administration Judge shall be defined by the Chief Justice from
time to time.

(b) The following matters shall invariably be referred by an

Administration Judge to the Administration Committee:-

(i) All cases which are to go before a meeting of all the
Judges.

(ii) All cases involving the amendment of the Rules and
Orders of the Court other than purely routine
amendments.

(iii) The issue of circular letters and instructions to the
Subordinate Courts in other than purely routine matters.

(iv) All circulars issued by District and Sessions Judges
for the guidance of Courts subordinate to them.


--- Page 985 ---
158

(v) All proposals for the confirmation or promotion of
District and Sessions Judges and Civil Judges.*

(vi) The grant of move-over and selection grade to
Judicial Officers.”

(vii) All pension cases of District and Sessions Judges
and Civil Judges.*

(viii) All cases in which disciplinary action is to be taken
against District and Sessions Judges and Civil Judges
and all cases in which there is a question of the recovery
from an officer of any loss suffered by Government.*

(ix) The selection of officers for deputation, and
magisterial, commercial or special training.

(x) Recommendations for the direct appointment of
Government servants as Extra Assistant Commissioners.

(xi) The fitness of officers for appointment as District and
Sessions Judges.

(xii) The monthly returns of work done by District and
Sessions Judges.

(xiii) All cases in which lawyers seek relaxation of High
Court Rules applicable to them other than those in which
the Judges or the Administration Committee have laid
down a policy to be followed.

(xiv) All proposals for the execution of Civil Major Works in
the Judicial Department.

(xv) All cases in which the opinion of all the Judges is
sought by Government.

(xvi) All cases of conferment of civil and criminal powers on
Civil Judges and Magistrates except:-

(a) powers under the Provincial Small Cause
Courts Act,

(b) powers under the Guardians and Wards Act,

(c) permission to exercise powers under the
Provincial Insolvency Act already conferred by
Punjab Government notification No.780, dated the
15" July 1914.

(d) ***[Omitted]

(xvii) All cases not specifically provided for which, in the
opinion of the Administration Judge, involve questions of
principle or policy.

(a) All administrative work for which there is no explicit
provision in the Rules and Orders of the Court or in the
rules made by the Administration Committee, shall be
disposed of under the orders of the Administration


--- Page 986 ---
159
Judge who may refer to the Committee any matter on
which he could pass orders.

(b) The Administration Judge shall pass orders on the
postings and transfers of Judicial Officers serving under
the High Court, and after orders have issued they shall
be circulated to all members of the Administration
Committee.

(xviii) The suspension of Civil Judges-cum-Judicial Magistrates,
Additional District and Sessions Judges and District and
Sessions Judges.*

(xix) The promotion of Civil Judges-cum-Judicial Magistrates,
Additional District and Sessions Judges and District and
Sessions Judges.*

(xx) Recommendations for the grant of pension to Civil Judges-
cum-Judicial Magistrates, Additional District and Sessions
Judges and District and Sessions Judges, where it is proposed
to recommend that the full pension earned be not allowed.*

(xxi) Representations against the adverse remarks made by the
Civil Judges-cum-Judicial Magistrates, Additional District and
Sessions Judges and District and Sessions Judges.*

5. Notwithstanding anything contained in the preceding rules the
following matters shall invariably be referred to and disposed of
at a meeting of all the Judges:-

(i) All matters involving questions of principle and policy.

(ii) All cases relating to amendments to be made to
existing laws or to the statutory rules of the Court.

(iii) All matters concerning the High Court as such or all
the Judges.

(iv) All matters on which the opinion of all the Judges is
invited by Government.

(v) ***[Omitted]

(vi) ***[Omitted]

(vii) ***[Omitted]

(viii) ***[Omitted]

(ix) ***[Omitted].

In addition, the Administration Committee may refer to a meeting

of all the Judges any matter which, in its opinion, should be

referred to such a meeting.


--- Page 987 ---
160

6. All cases to be considered at a meeting of all the Judges shall first be
considered by the Administration Committee which may make such
recommendation as it considers proper.

7. Meetings of all the Judges shall be called by the Chief Justice when
there is business for such meetings.

8. The Administration Committee shall have power to decide what
procedure it will adopt for the conduct of the business entrusted to it.

9. At all Judges’ meetings, ten Judges shall form a quorum. The Judges
present at a meeting, if ten or more, may dispose of all the business, for
the disposal or consideration of which such meeting was called, and
such disposal shall be deemed to be a disposal by the Court.*

10. In case of a difference of opinion at a meeting the decision shall be in
accordance with the opinion of the majority of the Judges present, and
in case the Judges present be equally divided the Chief Justice or in his
absence the Senior Judge present, shall have a casting vote.

11. The Registrar or, in his absence, the Additional Registrar, shall attend
all Judges’ meetings, and shall record the proceedings at such
meetings.*

12. As soon as conveniently may be, after the proceedings of a Judges’
meeting have been recorded and signed by the Registrar or Additional
Registrar, as the case may be, they shall be circulated to the Judges in
order of juniority and signed by the Chief Justice.*

13. The original proceedings of the Judges’ meetings shall be kept in the
General Record Room in a separate file and shall not be removed from
the Court building except by the Registrar with the sanction of the Chief
Justice.

14. The Chief Justice may empower any person holding the post of
Registrar or Additional Registrar of the High Court by name, to perform
all or any of the duties of a Judge in charge of any branch of the
executive and administration business of the Court.


--- Page 988 ---
161

15. During the vacation the administrative and executive work of the Court
may be carried out by the Senior Vacation Judge present at the Court,
who may in his discretion pass such orders as may be necessary
without prior reference to all the Judges or the Administration
Committee:
Provided that any matters decided by a Vacation Judge under this rule,
which would otherwise fall for decision by all the Judges or by the
Administration Committee shall be referred to all the Judges or to the
Administration Committee, as the case may be, for confirmation after the
vacation.

16.  ***[Omitted].


--- Page 989 ---
162
PART B PROCEDURE FOR MAKING RULES UNDER PART X OF THE CODE
OF CIVIL PROCEDURE.

1. As soon as the minutes of a meeting of a Rule Committee have been
signed, the Registrar or Additional Registrar (who is also the Secretary
of the Rules Committee), shall endorse upon them an order that a copy
be placed before a meeting of the Judges on a specified date.*

2. In the event of the minutes of the Rule Committee reaching the office
without such an endorsement, the attention of the Registrar shall be
drawn to the omission forthwith.

3. If the Judges decide that the recommendations are to be accepted and
a Rule made, the Registrar or Additional Registrar shall cause the Rule,
in the form in which it has been framed by the Judges to be published
for objection in the Punjab Gazette.*

4. On the termination of the period fixed for objection, the Registrar or
Additional Registrar shall again lay the Rule, with objections, if any,
before a meeting of the Judges. *

5. If the Judges decide to make the Rule, the Registrar or Additional
Registrar will at once apply to the Government of the Punjab and
Federal Government for the approval of the Rule in the form in which it
has been framed.”

6. On the receipt of the approval of the Federal Government, the Registrar
or Additional Registrar shall cause the Rule to be published in the
Punjab Gazette.*

7. After publication in the gazette a correction slip,

(a) to the Rules and Orders of the High Court, and

(b) to the pamphlet entitled Rules made by the Lahore High Court,
Lahore, under section 122 of the Code of Civil Procedure, shall
be prepared and issued forthwith.


--- Page 990 ---
163
APPENDIX

LETTERS PATENT CONSTITUTING THE HIGH COURT OF JUDICATURE

AT LAHORE, FOR THE PROVINCES OF THE PUNJAB AND DELHI, DATED

THE 21°" MARCH, 1919.

GEORGE THE FIFTH, by the Grace of God, of the United Kingdom of Great
Britain and Ireland, and of the British Dominions beyond the Seas, King, Defender of
the Faith, Emperor of India, to all to whom these Presents shall come, greeting:

Whereas by an Act of Parliament passed in the Fifth and Sixth years of Our
Reign and called the Government of India Act, 1915, it was amongst other things
enacted that it should be lawful for Us by Letters Patent to establish a High Court of
Judicature in any territory in British India whether or not included within the limits of the
local jurisdiction of another High Court and to confer on any High Court so established
any such jurisdiction, powers and authority as were vested in or might be conferred on
any High Court existing at the commencement of that Act.

And whereas the Provinces of the Punjab and Delhi are now subject to the
jurisdiction of the Chief Court of the Punjab which was established by an Act of the
Governor-General of India in Council, being Act No.XXIIl of 1865, and was continued
by later enactments and no part of the said Provinces is included within the limits of
the local jurisdiction of any High Court.

1. Now know ye that We, upon full consideration of the premises, and of
our special grace, certain knowledge, and mere motion, have thought fit
to erect and establish, and by these presents We do accordingly for Us,
Our heirs and successors, erect and establish, for the Provinces of the
Punjab and Delhi aforesaid, with effect from the date of the publication
of these presents in the Gazette of India, a High Court of Judicature,
which shall be called the High Court of Judicature at Lahore, and We do
hereby constitute the said Court to be a Court of Record.

2. And We do hereby appoint and ordain that the High Court of Judicature
at Lahore shall, until further or other provision be made by Us, or Our
heirs and successors, in that behalf in accordance with section one
hundred and one of the said recited Government of India Act, 1915,
consist of a Chief Justice and six other Judges, the first Chief Justice
being Sir Henry Adolphus Rattigan, Knight, and the six other Judges
being William Chevis, Esquire, Henry Scot-Smith, Esquire, Shadi Lal,
Esquire, Rai Bahadur, Walter Aubin leRossignol, Esquire, Leycester
Hudson Leslie Jones, Esquire, and Alan Brice


--- Page 991 ---
164
Broadway, Esquire, being respectively qualified as in the said Act is
declared.

3. And We do hereby ordain that the Chief Justice and every other Judge
of the High Court of Judicature at Lahore, previously to entering upon
the execution of the duties of his office, shall make and subscribe the
following declaration before such authority or person as the Lieutenant-
Governor of the Punjab may commission to receive it:-

“lI, A.B., appointed Chief Justice [or a Judge] of the High Court of
Judicature at Lahore, do solemnly declare that | will faithfully perform the
duties of my office to the best of my ability, knowledge and judgment.”

4. And We do hereby grant, ordain and appoint that the High Court of
Judicature at Lahore shall have and use, as occasion may require, a
seal bearing a device and impression of Our Royal arms, within an
exergue or label surrounding the same, with this inscription, “The Seal of
the High Court at Lahore”, and We do further grant, ordain and appoint
that the said seal shall be delivered to and kept in the custody of the
Chief Justice, and in case of vacancy of the office of Chief Justice, or
during any absence of the Chief Justice, the same shall be delivered
over and kept in the custody of the person appointed to act as Chief
Justice under the provisions of section one hundred and five of the
Government of India Act, 1915; and We do further grant, ordain and
appoint that , whensoever the office of Chief Justice or of the Judge to
whom the custody of the said seal be committed is vacant, the said High
Court shall be, and is hereby, authorized and empowered to demand,
seize and take the said seal from any person or persons whomsoever,
by what ways and means soever the same may have come to his, her or
their possession.

5. And We do hereby further grant, ordain and appoint that all writs,
summonses, precepts, rules, orders and other mandatory process to be
used, issued or awarded by the High Court of Judicature at Lahore shall
run and be in the name and style of Us, or of Our heirs and successors,
and shall be sealed with the seal of the said High Court.

6. And We do hereby authorize and empower the Chief Justice of the High
Court of Judicature at Lahore from time to time, as occasion may
require, and subject to any rules and restrictions which may be
prescribed from time to time by the Lieutenant-Governor of the Punjab,
to appoint so many and such clerks and other ministerial officers as may
be found necessary for the administration of justice
and the due execution of all the powers and authorities granted and
committed to the said High Court by these Our Letters Patent. And it is


--- Page 992 ---
165
Our further will and pleasure, and We do hereby, for Us, Our heirs and
successors, give, grant, direct and appoint, that all and every the officers
and clerks to be appointed as aforesaid shall have and receive
respectively such reasonable salaries as the Chief Justice may, from
time to time, appoint for each office and place respectively, and as the
Lieutenant-Governor of the Punjab, subject to the control of the
Governor-General in Council, may approve of: Provided always, and it is
Our will and pleasure, that all and every the officers and clerks to be
appointed as aforesaid shall be resident within the limits of the
jurisdiction of the said Court, so long as they hold their respective
offices, but this proviso shall not interfere with or prejudice the right of
any officer or clerk to avail himself of leave of absence under any rules
prescribed from time to time by the Governor-General in Council, and to
absent himself from the said limits during the term of such leave in
accordance with the said rules.
Admission of Advocates, Vakils and Attorneys.
7. ***[Omitted].
8. ***[Omitted].
Civil Jurisdiction of the High Court.

9. And We do further ordain that the High Court of Judicature at Lahore
shall have power to remove, and to try and determine, as a Court of
extraordinary original jurisdiction, any suit being or falling within the
jurisdiction of any Court subject to its superintendence, when the said
High Court may think proper to do so, either on the agreement of the
parties to that effect, or for purposes of justice, the reasons for so doing
being recorded on the proceedings of the said High Court.

10. ***[Omitted].

11. And We do further ordain that the High Court of Judicature at Lahore
shall be a Court of Appeal from the Civil Courts of the Provinces of the
Punjab and Delhi and from all other Courts subject to its
superintendence, and shall exercise appellate jurisdiction in such cases
as were, immediately before the date of the publication of these
presents, subject to appeal to the Chief Court of the Punjab by virtue of
any law then in force, or as may after that date be declared subject to


--- Page 993 ---
166
appeal to the High Court of Judicature at Lahore by any law made by
competent legislative authority for India.

12. And We do further ordain that the High Court of Judicature at Lahore
shall have the like power and authority with respect to the persons and
estates of infants, idiots and lunatics within the Provinces of the Punjab
and Delhi as that which was vested in the Chief Court of the Punjab
immediately before the publication of these presents.

Law to be administered by the High Court.

13. And We do further ordain that, with respect to the law or equity to be
applied to each case coming before the High Court of Judicature at
Lahore in the exercise of its extraordinary original civil jurisdiction, such
law or equity shall, until otherwise provided, be the law or equity which
would have been applied to such case by any local court having
jurisdiction therein.

14. And We do further ordain that, with respect to the law or equity and rule
of good conscience to be applied by the High Court of Judicature at
Lahore to each case coming before it in the exercise of its appellate
jurisdiction, such law or equity and rule of good conscience shall be the
law or equity and rule of good conscience which the Court in which the
proceedings in such case were originally instituted ought to have applied
to such case.

Criminal Jurisdiction.

15. And We do further ordain that the High Court of Judicature at Lahore
shall have ordinary original criminal jurisdiction in respect of all such
persons within the Provinces of the Punjab and Delhi as the Chief Court
of the Punjab had such criminal jurisdiction over immediately before the
publication of these presents.

16. And We do further ordain that the High Court of Judicature at
Lahore, in exercise of its ordinary original criminal jurisdiction, shall be
empowered to try all persons brought before it in due course of law.

17. And We do further ordain that the High Court of Judicature at Lahore
shall have extraordinary original criminal jurisdiction over all persons
residing in places within the jurisdiction of any Court subject to its
superintendence, and shall have authority to try at its discretion any
such persons brought before it on charges preferred by any Magistrate
or other officer specially empowered by the Government in that behalf.


--- Page 994 ---
167

18. And We do further ordain that there shall be no appeal to the High Court
of Judicature at Lahore from any sentence or order passed or made by
the Courts of original criminal jurisdiction which may be constituted by
one or more Judges of the said High Court. But it shall be at the
discretion of any such court to reserve any point or points of law for the
opinion of the said High Court.

19. And We do further ordain that, on such point or points of law being so
reserved as aforesaid, the High Court of Judicature at Lahore shall
have full power and authority to review the case, or such part of it as
may be necessary, and finally determine such point or points of law, and
thereupon to alter the sentence passed by the Court of original
jurisdiction and to pass such judgment and sentence as to the said High
Court may seem right.

20. And We do further ordain that the High Court of Judicature at Lahore
shall be a Court of Appeal from the Criminal Courts of the Provinces of
the Punjab and Delhi and from all other Courts subject to its
superintendence, and shall exercise appellate jurisdiction in such cases
as were, immediately before the date of the publication of these
presents, subject to appeal to the Chief Court of the Punjab by virtue of
any law then in force, or as may after that date be declared subject to
appeal to the High Court of Judicature at Lahore by any law made by
competent legislative authority for India.

21. And We do further ordain that the High Court of Judicature at Lahore
shall be a court of reference and revision from the Criminal Courts
subject to its appellate jurisdiction, and shall have power to hear and
determine all such cases referred to it by the Sessions Judges, or by
any other officers in the Provinces of the Punjab and Delhi who were,
immediately before the publication of these presents, authorized to refer
cases to the Chief Court of the Punjab and to revise all such cases tried
by any officer or court possessing criminal jurisdiction in the Provinces
of the Punjab and Delhi, as were, immediately before the publication of
these presents, subject to reference to or revision by the Chief Court of
the Punjab.

22. And We do further ordain that the High Court of Judicature at Lahore
shall have power to direct the transfer of any criminal case or appeal
from any Court to any other Court of equal or superior jurisdiction, and
also to direct the preliminary investigation or trial of any criminal case by
any officer or Court otherwise competent to investigate or try it, though
such case belongs in ordinary course to the jurisdiction of some other
officer or Court.


--- Page 995 ---
168
Criminal Law.

23. And We do further ordain that all persons brought for trial before the
High Court of Judicature at Lahore, either in the exercise of its original
jurisdiction, or in the exercise of its jurisdiction as a court of appeal,
reference or revision, charged with any offence for which provision is
made by Act No. XLV of 1860, called the “Indian Penal Code,” or by any
Act amending or excluding the said Act which may have been passed
prior to the publication of these presents, shall be liable to punishment
under the said Act or Acts, and not otherwise.

Testamentary and Intestate Jurisdiction .

24. And We do further ordain that the High Court of Judicature at Lahore
shall have the like power and authority as that which was immediately
before the publication of these presents lawfully exercised within the
Provinces of the Punjab and Delhi by the Chief Court of the Punjab, in
relation to the granting of probates of last wills and testaments, and
letters of administration of the goods, chattels, credits and all other
effects whatsoever of persons dying intestate: Provided always that
nothing in these Letters Patent contained shall interfere with the
provisions of any law which has been made by competent legislative
authority for India, by which power is given to any other Court to grant
such probates and letters of administration.

Matrimonial Jurisdiction.

25. And We do further ordain that the High Court of Judicature at Lahore
shall have jurisdiction, within the Provinces of the Punjab and Delhi, in
matters matrimonial between Our subjects professing the Christian
religion: Provided always that nothing herein contained shall be held
to interfere with the exercise of any jurisdiction in matters matrimonial by
any Court, not established by Letters Patent within the said Provinces
which is lawfully possessed of that jurisdiction.


--- Page 996 ---
169
Powers of Single Judges and Division Courts.

26. And We do hereby declare that any function which is hereby directed to
be performed by the High Court of Judicature at Lahore in the exercise
of its original or appellate jurisdiction, may be performed by any Judge,
or by any Division Court, thereof, appointed or constituted for such
purpose in pursuance of section one hundred and eight of the
Government of India Act, 1915; and if such Division Court is composed
of two or more Judges and the Judges are divided in opinion as to the
decision to be given on any points, such points shall be decided
according to the opinion of the majority of the Judges, if there be a
majority, but, if the Judges be equally divided, they shall state the point
upon which they differ and the case shall then be heard upon that point
by one or more of the other Judges and the point shall be decided
according to the opinion of the majority of the Judges who have heard
the case, including those who first heard it.

Civil Procedure.

27. And We do further ordain that it shall be lawful for the High Court of
Judicature at Lahore from time to time to make rules and orders for
regulating the practice of the Court and for the purpose of adapting as
far as possible the provisions of the Code of Civil Procedure, being an
Act, No. V of 1908, passed by the Governor-General in Council, and the
provisions of any law which has been or may be made, amending or
altering the same, by competent legislative authority for India, to all
proceedings in its testamentary, intestate and matrimonial jurisdiction,
respectively.

Criminal Procedure.

28. And We do further ordain that the proceedings in all criminal cases
brought before the High Court of Judicature at Lahore shall be regulated
by the Code of Criminal Procedure being an Act, No. V of 1898, passed
by the Governor-General in Council or by such further or other laws in
relation to criminal procedure as may have been or may be made by
competent legislative authority for India.


--- Page 997 ---
170
Appeals to Privy Council.

29. And We do further ordain that any person or persons may appeal to Us,
Our heirs and successors, in Our or their Privy Council in any matter not
being of criminal jurisdiction from any final judgment, decree or order of
the High Court of Judicature at Lahore made on appeal, and from any
final judgment, decree or order made in the exercise of original
jurisdiction by Judges of the said High Court, or of any Division Court,
from which an appeal does not lie to the said High Court, under the
provisions contained in the 10" clause of these presents: provided, in
either case, that the sum or matter at issue is of the amount or value of
not less than 10,000 rupees or that such judgment, decree or order
involves, directly or indirectly, some claim, demand or question to or
respecting property amounting to or of the value of not less than 10,000
rupees; or from any other final judgment, decree or order made either on
appeal or otherwise as aforesaid, when the said High Court declares
that the case is a fit one for appeal to Us, Our heirs or successors, in
Our or their Privy Council; but subject always to such rules and orders
as are now in force or may from time to time be made respecting
appeals to Ourselves in Council from the Courts of the Provinces of the
Punjab and Delhi, except so far as the said existing rules and orders
respectively are hereby varied and subject also to such further rules and
orders as We may, with the advice of Our Privy Council, hereafter make
in that behalf.

30. And We do further ordain that it shall be lawful for the High Court of
Judicature at Lahore at its discretion on the motion, or, if the said High
Court be not sitting, then for any Judge of the said High Court, upon the
petition, of any party who considers himself aggrieved by any
preliminary or interlocutory judgment, decree or order of the said High
Court, in any such proceeding as aforesaid, not being of criminal
jurisdiction, to grant permission to such party to appeal against the same
to Us, Our heirs and successors, in Our or their Privy Council, subject to
the same rules, regulations and limitations as are herein expressed
respecting appeals from final judgments, decrees and orders.

31. And We do further ordain that from any judgment, order or sentence of
the High Court of Judicature at Lahore, made in the exercise of original
criminal jurisdiction or in any criminal case where any point or points of
law have been reserved for the opinion of the said High Court, in
manner provided by the 18" clause of these presents by any Court
which has exercised original jurisdiction, it shall be lawful for the person
aggrieved by such judgment, order or sentence to appeal to


--- Page 998 ---
171
Us, Our heirs or successors, in Council, provided the said High Court
declares that the case is a fit one for such appeal, and that the appeal
be made under such conditions as the said High Court may establish or
require, but subject always to such rules and orders as are now in force,
or may from time to time be made, respecting appeals to Ourselves in
Council from the Courts of the Provinces of the Punjab and Delhi.

32. And We do further ordain that, in all cases of appeal made from any
judgment, decree, order or sentence of the High Court of Judicature at
Lahore to Us, Our heirs or successors, in Our or their Privy Council,
such High Court shall certify and transmit to Us, Our heirs and
successors, in Our or their Privy Council, a true and correct copy of all
evidence, proceedings, judgments, decrees and orders had or made, in
such cases appealed, so far as the same have relation to the matters of
appeal, such copies to be certified under the seal of the said High Court.
And that the said High Court shall also certify and transmit to Us, Our
heirs and successors in Our or their Privy Council, a copy of the reasons
given by the Judges of such Court, or by any of such Judges, for or
against the judgment or determination appealed against. And We do
further ordain that the said High Court shall, in all cases of appeal to Us,
Our heirs or successors, conform to and execute, or cause to be
executed, such judgments and orders as We, Our heirs or successors,
in Our or their Privy Council, may think fit to make in the premises, in
such manner as any original judgment, decree or decretal orders or
other order or rule of the said High Court, should or might have been
executed.

Exercise of Jurisdiction elsewhere than at the usual place of
sitting of the High Court.

33. And We do further ordain that whenever it appears to the Lieutenant-
Governor of the Punjab, subject to the control of the Governor-General
in Council, convenient that the jurisdiction and power by these Our
Letters Patent, or by or under the Government of India Act, 1915, vested
in the High Court of Judicature at Lahore should be exercised in any
place within the jurisdiction of any Court subject to the superintendence
of the said High Court, other than the usual place of sitting of the said
High Court or at several such places by way of circuit, one or more
Judges of the Court shall visit such place or places accordingly.


--- Page 999 ---
172

34. And We do further ordain that whenever any Judge or Judges of the
High Court of Judicature at Lahore visit any place under the 33" clause
of these presents proceedings in cases before him or them at such
place shall be regulated by any law relating thereto which has been or
may be made by competent legislative authority for India.

Delegation of Duties to Officers.

35. The High Court of Judicature at Lahore may from time to time make
rules for delegating to any Registrar, Prothonotary or Master or other
official of the Court any judicial, quasi-judicial and non-judicial duties.

Calls for Records, etc., by the Government.

36. And it is Our further will and pleasure that the High Court of Judicature
at Lahore shall comply with such requisitions as may be made by the
Governor-General in Council or by the Lieutenant-Governor of the
Punjab for records, returns and statements in such forms and manners
as he may deem proper.

Powers of Indian Legislatures.

37. And We do further ordain and declare that all the provisions of these
Our Letters Patent are subject to the legislative powers of the Governor-
General in Legislative Council, and also of the Governor-General in
Council under section seventy one of the Government India Act, 1915,
and also of the Governor-General in cases of emergency under section
seventy two of that Act, and may be in all respects amended and altered
thereby.

IN WITNESS whereof We have caused these Our Letters to be made Patent.
WITNESS Ourselves at West Minister the 21%! day of March in the year of Our Lord one
thousand nine hundred and nineteen and in the Ninth Year of Our Reign.

By Warrant under the King’s Sign Manual.

[Signed.]

SCHUSTER


