Reference

Matter

Comments

On 4 May 2023, at 10:49, Michael Lynch <sheridanandlynch@gmail.com> wrote:

Dear Foysal,Thank you for your reply. Unfortunately we are not able to reduce the rent below E800 per month from 1/6/23. Our letting agent assures us that this amount is very good value in the present market. It is also still preferential when compared to the other units in the building. While we also regret having to make this increase it is necessary to maintain the integrity of the building.If you decide to remain in the space we will of course deal with any building maintenance issues which you have.Kind regards,Michael Lynch.Sheridan & Lynch Ltd.

Regards,Md Foysal Khan



On Thu, May 11, 2023 at 11:52 PM Foysal Khan <foysalkhan30@gmail.com> wrote:



Dear Michael,We will remain in space and will pay €800 per month from July 2023 as discussed with William, it will bit difficult to pay €800 per month but we will try our best hope our new retail convenience store will be able to generate some money. . Please draw a new lease for us, and also please visit the shop for few fixing requirement as will start renovating once your finish all the work in the premise. Thanks Best Regards,Foysal



On Sun 21 May 2023 at 14:26, Michael Lynch <sheridanandlynch@gmail.com> wrote:

Dear Foysal,

We have asked our solicitors to draw up a new agreement from 1/7/2023. As soon as they do so we will let you know.

Kind regards,

Michael.



On Sun, May 21, 2023 at 2:30 PM Foysal Khan <foysalkhan30@gmail.com> wrote:



Dear Michael,

Thanks you so much, can you also please visit the shop so that I can show you what need to be done and what changes we will be making for our new shop. Please let me know timing. Thanks.  

Kind regards,

FOYSAL. 



On 31 May 2023, at 17:10, Michael Lynch <sheridanandlynch@gmail.com> wrote:

Dear Foysal,

Our solicitor needs your address for the new agreement.

One of us will visit you to see what work needs to be done during June.

Kind regards,

Michael.



On Wed, May 31, 2023 at 5:14 PM Foysal Khan <foysalkhan30@gmail.com> wrote:



Hi Michael,

Thank you so much, it will great as we will start working mute shop from next week, it will be helpful if you can visit around that time. 

Please use my Address below:

45, Saint Joseph Street

Limerick. V94F5KKThanks,

Regards,

Foysal 



On Thu 1 Jun 2023 at 11:59, Michael Lynch <sheridanandlynch@gmail.com> wrote:



Dear Foysal,

Thanks for the address. What is a mute shop?

Kind regards,

Michael.



On Thu, Jun 1, 2023 at 12:02 PM Foysal Khan <foysalkhan30@gmail.com> wrote:



Sorry Michael,

It was a typo my apologies, it will be just a small convenience store, kind of small centra kind. Thanks 

Regards,

Foysal.



13/06/2023



Dear Foysal,

I got your text message. We are still waiting for the solicitor to come back with the new agreement. Until this is signed I would advise not to carry out any changes to the unit. Hopefully we will not have to wait much longer but as I'm sure you are aware the legal profession move in their own time.

Kind regards,

Michael.



On 6 Jul 2023, at 10:26, Michael Lynch <sheridanandlynch@gmail.com> wrote:

Dear Foysal,

Your electric meter readings on 3/7/23 were:

Day 47814.

Night 55265.

Have you heard from the solicitor re the new lease?

Kind regards,

Michael.



---------- Forwarded message ---------From: Foysal Khan <foysalkhan30@gmail.com>Date: Thu, Jul 6, 2023 at 10:39 AMSubject: Re: Elect. MeterTo: Michael Lynch <sheridanandlynch@gmail.com>



GoodMorning Michael,

Thanks you so much for the reading. No I have not heard anything regarding the renew from the solicitor, I believe there should not be a problem with our agreement as we have already agreed to each other, but now the window replacement works and heater fixing is holding us for going any further with our new venture, which can cause difficulty to pay the new rent, therefore, can you please send someone to do the necessary works at the premises by this week please. We can not delay our opening any further than mid this month as we are losing money every days. I highly appreciate your understanding.

Thanks, 

Regards,

Foysal 



On Fri, Jul 7, 2023 at 10:53 AM Michael Lynch <sheridanandlynch@gmail.com> wrote:



Dear Foysal,

The electrician Jim Clancy will contact you shortly re heater, we gave your number. Also the window repair people.

Regards

Michael.



08/07/2023



Dear Foysal,

The electrician Jim Clancy will contact you shortly re heater, we gave your number. Also the window repair people.

Regards

Michael.



10/07/2023



Michael Lynch sheridanandlynch@gmail.com

Dear Foysal,

We had your trip switch checked last evening but it had not tripped out and all the fuses were intact. Our electrician will will look at it when he calls. He will ring you to meet.

Regards,

Michael.









Research: 

Landlord and Tenant (Amendment) Act, 1980



8.—The jurisdiction conferred by this Act on the Court shall be exercised by the Judge of the Court for the time being assigned to the Circuit in which are situate the premises or any part of the premises in relation to which the jurisdiction is exercised.



16.—Subject to the provisions of this Act, where this Part applies to a tenement, the tenant shall be entitled to a new tenancy in the tenement beginning on the termination of his previous tenancy, and the new tenancy shall be on such terms as may be agreed upon between the tenant and the person or persons granting or joining in the grant of the new tenancy or, in default of agreement, as shall be fixed by the Court.



17.—(1) (a) A tenant shall not be entitled to a new tenancy under this Part if—





(i) the tenancy has been terminated because of non-payment of rent, whether the proceedings were framed as an ejectment for non-payment of rent, an ejectment for overholding or an ejectment on the title based on a forfeiture, or





(ii) the tenancy has been terminated by ejectment, notice to quit or otherwise on account of a breach by the tenant of a covenant of the tenancy, or





(iii) the tenant has terminated the tenancy by notice of surrender or otherwise, or





(iv) the tenancy has been terminated by notice to quit given by the landlord for good and sufficient reason, or





(v) the tenancy terminated otherwise than by notice to quit and the landlord either refused for good and sufficient reason to renew it or would, if he had been asked to renew it, have had good and sufficient reason for refusing.





(b) In this subsection “good and sufficient reason” means a reason which emanates from or is the result of or is traceable to some action or conduct of the tenant and which, having regard to all the circumstances of the case, is in the opinion of the Court a good and sufficient reason for terminating or refusing to renew (as the case may be) the tenancy.





(2) (a) A tenant shall not be entitled to a new tenancy under this Part where it appears to the Court that—





(i) the landlord intends or has agreed to pull down and rebuild or to reconstruct the buildings or any part of the buildings included in the tenement and has planning permission for the work, or





(ii) the landlord requires vacant possession for the purpose of carrying out a scheme of development of property which includes the tenement and has planning permission for the scheme, or





(iii) the landlord being a planning authority, the tenement or any part thereof is situate in an area in respect of which the development plan indicates objectives for its development or renewal as being an obsolete area, or





(iv) the landlord, being a local authority for the purposes of the Local Government Act, 1941 , will require possession, within a period of five years after the termination of the existing tenancy, for any purpose for which the local authority are entitled to acquire property compulsorily, or





(v) for any reason the creation of a new tenancy would not be consistent with good estate management.





(b) In the case of certain dwellings and business premises to which this subsection applies the tenant is entitled to compensation for disturbance under Part IV.





(3) Where the Court is satisfied—





(a) that a tenant would but for subparagraph (i), (ii), (iii) or (iv) of subsection (2) (a) be entitled to a new tenancy, and





(b) that the landlord will not require possession for the purposes mentioned in the relevant subparagraph until after the expiration of a period of at least six months,





the Court may, if the tenant so requests, continue the existing tenancy until terminated by the landlord for those purposes by the service of six months' previous notice in writing, but subject to the condition that the continuation of the tenancy shall be without prejudice to the right of the tenant to relief under this Act on the termination of the continued tenancy.





(4) Where, in a case in which an application for a new tenancy has been refused on a ground mentioned in subparagraph (i) or (ii) of subsection (2) (a), it appears to the Court that the landlord has not, within a reasonable time, carried out the intention, agreement or purpose, as the case may be, on account of which such application was refused, the Court may order the landlord to pay to the tenant such sum as it considers proper by way of punitive damages.



20.—(1) A claim for a new tenancy under this Part shall not be maintained unless the claimant, within the time limited in subsection (2), serves on each person against whom the claim is intended to be made a notice of intention to claim relief in the prescribed form.





(2) A notice of intention to claim relief may be served—





(a) in the case of a tenancy terminating by the expiration of a term of years or other certain period or by any other certain event—





(i) before the termination of the tenancy, or





(ii) at any time thereafter but before the expiration of three months after the service (not earlier than three months before the termination of the tenancy) on the claimant by the landlord of notice in the prescribed form of the expiration of the term or period or the happening of the event;





(b) in the case of a tenancy terminating by the fall of a life or any other uncertain event—at any time but before the expiration of three months after the service on the claimant by the landlord of notice in the prescribed form of the happening of the event;





(c) in the case of a tenancy which is terminable by notice to quit—at any time but before the expiration of three months (or, in the case of premises to which section 14 or 15 applies, six months) after the service of the notice;





(d) in the case of a tenancy to which section 29 applies—within six months after the commencement of this Act.





(3) The notice may include a claim in the alternative for compensation.



21.—(1) A person who serves a notice of intention to claim relief may, at any time not less than one month thereafter, apply to the Court to determine his right to relief and (as the case may be) to fix the amount of the compensation or the terms of the new tenancy to which he is found to be entitled.





(2) If he does not do so within three months after service of the notice, any person on whom the notice was served may apply to the Court to determine the matters to which the notice relates.





(3) An application under this section may be made, heard and determined either before and in anticipation of or after the termination of the tenancy.



22.—(1) Where the tenant serves on the landlord a notice of intention to claim compensation under Part IV for improvements, the landlord, any superior landlord or any two or more of such persons may, within two months, serve on the tenant a notice in the prescribed form offering him a new tenancy in the tenement on terms specified in the notice or on terms to be fixed by the Court.





(2) Where a notice is served under subsection (1) offering the tenant a new tenancy on terms specified in the notice—





(a) the tenant may, within one month, serve on the person or persons who served the notice a notice in the prescribed form accepting the new tenancy;





(b) in that case, such person or persons shall forthwith grant, and the tenant shall forthwith accept, a new contract of tenancy in writing in respect of the tenement on the terms specified in the notice served on the tenant, commencing on the termination of the previous tenancy;





[New in pt.]





(c) the tenant may, alternatively, within one month serve on such person or persons a notice refusing the new tenancy;





(d) in that case the tenant may proceed with his application for relief by way of compensation for improvements, but—





(i) on the hearing of the application, the Court if satisfied that the tenant is entitled to that relief, may in lieu of awarding that relief make an order requiring the necessary person or persons to grant, and the tenant to accept, a new tenancy in the tenement on such terms as the Court (subject to the provisions of this Act) thinks proper and specifies in the order, and





(ii) upon the making of that order, the necessary person or persons shall forthwith grant, and the tenant shall forthwith accept, a contract of tenancy in writing in respect of the tenement on the terms specified in the order.





(3) Where a notice is served under subsection (1) offering a new tenancy on terms to be fixed by the Court—





(a) either the person or persons who served the notice or the tenant may apply to the Court for an order fixing the terms of the new tenancy;





(b) upon the making of that order, the necessary person or persons shall forthwith grant, and the tenant shall forthwith accept, a contract of tenancy in writing in respect of the tenement on the terms specified in the order.





(4) Where any person or persons and the tenant are required by this section or an order made under this section, respectively to grant and accept a new tenancy, the tenant shall not be entitled to compensation in respect of the termination of his tenancy previous to the new tenancy.





(5) Where any person or persons and the tenant are required, by this section or an order made under this section, respectively to grant and accept a new tenancy and any dispute, failure or question arises or occurs in the granting and accepting of the tenancy, the Court, on the application of any person concerned, may make such order as justice may require.

18.—(1) This section applies where the Court, on an application for a new tenancy under this Part, finds that the tenant is entitled to a new tenancy.





(2) The Court shall fix the terms of the new tenancy and make an order requiring the landlord, and any superior landlord whose joinder may be necessary, to grant or join in the grant of, and the tenant to accept, a new tenancy accordingly.





(3) Such person or persons shall grant or join in the grant of, and the tenant shall accept, a new contract of tenancy in writing in respect of the tenement on the terms specified in the order, commencing on the termination of the previous tenancy.





(4) The tenant shall not be entitled to compensation in respect of the termination of his previous tenancy.





(5) If any dispute, failure or question arises or occurs in the carrying out of the order, the Court may, on the application of any person concerned, make such order as justice may require.



Sec. 28:

Where an application is pending under this Part for a new tenancy or to fix the terms of a new tenancy and the pre-existing tenancy was terminated otherwise than by ejectment or surrender the tenant may, if he so desires, continue in occupation of the tenement from the termination of the tenancy until the application is determined by the Court or, in the event of an appeal, by the final appellate court, and the tenant shall while so continuing be subject to the terms (including the payment of rent) of such tenancy, but without prejudice to such recoupments and readjustments as may be necessary in the event of a new tenancy being granted to commence from such termination.

64.—In this Part, “lease” includes a yearly tenancy arising by operation of law or by inference on the expiration of a lease and a statutory tenancy implied by holding over premises on the expiration of a lease.