PAKISTAN PENAL CODE PART 2

SECTION 300: QATAL I AMD

Intention of causing death 

Intention of causing bodily injury which will likely to cause death

Knowledge that this act is so imminently dangerous it will cause death of person.

Section 301: Causing death of person other than person whose death was intended

His intention to cause death

Knowledge that it will likely to cause death

Causes death of other person

Neither intends nor knows himself

Liable for qatal I amd

This act must fall within ambit of culpable homicide

Confessional statement should be collaborated by other piece of evidence such as matching of spent bullets recovered from body with the bullets of weapon.

Section 302: punishment of qatal I amd

Punished with death as qisas

Punished with death or imprisonment for life as tazir after considering the circumstances of the case and if conditions mentioned in section 304 is not fulfilled.

Punished with imprisonment for 25 years if qisas is not applicable

Clause c will not apply where principle of fasad fil ard is applied.

To constitute an offence of qatal I amd, it is not necessary that intention should be caused with intention to cause death, it is sufficient that it will likely to cause death or with the knowledge that it is so dangerous that it will likely to cause death.

The courts decide whether the offence falls in category a,b or c

Qisas punishment will apply when requirements of tazkiyah tul shahood and requirement made in section 304 is fulfilled. Otherwise, tazir punishment will be inflicted under section 302(a) 

Provisions of s.306,307,308 would only be attracted in the cases of qatal e amd liable to qisas u/s 302 (a)

Clause(b) will be applicable in mitigating circumstances where no designed pre-planned, no motive, no previous enmity, is established. Moreover, grave and sudden provocation and qatal committed on account of ghairat are also included in mitigating circumstances.

In plea of right of self defence, burden of proof is on accused.

Abettor is not liable to death as qisas, but liable to punishment of death in tazir.

Cases covered by clause(c), are:

Cases falling within ambit of section 306 punisgable under section 308

Cases neither falling in clause a or clase b 

Cases involving family honor

Righgt of self defence

Grave and sudden provocation qatal on account of ghairat

304: Proof of Qatal I amd liable to Qisas

The accused makes before competent court true and voluntarily confession for commission of offence.

By the evidence provided in article 17 of qso

The provisions of clause 1 will mutatis mutandis apply to a hurt liable to qisas.

Conditions for Tazkiyah al shuhood (Mumtaz Ahmad case)

Evidence must be given by 2 witnesses.

In case of discrepancies between evidence of 2 witnesses, they both should be rejected.

It is condition precedent to impose Had

One or more Muzakki

Muzakki should be present when the witness gives evidence.

He should be questioned about antecedents, character and dealings.

The court gauges the credibility of witness and in order that it conducts inquiry.

Court arranges a questionnaire on which Muzakki answers the questions.

Court also examines Muzakki after he submits his report

It asks searching questions from witness and cross-examines him. 

Section 305: wali

The heirs of the victim according to his personal law

Does not include accused or convicted in case of qatal I amd committed in the name or pretext of honor. 

The Governmnet, if there is no heir

Accused confined to jail for non-payment of fine. Government in absence of any other source for payment of diyat is wali for the minor offender and also on behalf of the legal heirs of the deceased according to law. High court ordered that diyat should be paid from bait ul mal and for that it attached/sale the moveable property of government in order to pay amount of diyat.

Wali is a person who is inherited from victim’s property

They should be immediate heirs of victim.

Section 306: qatal I amd not liable to qisas

When offender is a minor or insane.

But if person accociate himself in commission of offence with minor, he will be liable to qisas.

When offender causes death of his child or grandchild

When any wali is a direct descendent of the offender.